House Of Card TV Show

Hey! What are you doing? Jesus.
- Did you get a good look? Blue Toyota camry.
That's all I saw.
That's the Whartons' dog.
Aw, man.
He's not going to make it.
Go see if they're home.
Shh.
Shh.
It's okay.
There are two kinds of pain The sort of pain that makes you strong, or useless pain, the sort of pain that's only suffering.
I have no patience for useless things.
Moments like this require someone who will act, who will do the unpleasant thing, the necessary thing.
There.
No more pain.
It was a hit-and-run.
I'm awfully sorry.
He must have jumped over the fence again.
Look, Steve is going to file the report on the car, and he'll put his people on it.
We'll track them down.
You look stunning.
Shall we? Three, two, one Happy new year! Oh.
President-elect Garrett Walker.
Do I like him? No.
Do I believe in him? That's beside the point.
Any politician that gets 70 million votes has tapped into something larger than himself Larger than even me, as much as I hate to admit it.
And look at that winning smile, those trusting eyes.
I latched onto him early on and made myself vital.
After 22 years in congress, I can smell which way the wind is blowing.
Oh, Jim Matthews, his right honorable vice-president.
Former governor of Pennsylvania.
He did his duty in delivering the keystone state, bless his heart, and now they're about to put him out to pasture.
But he looks happy enough, doesn't he? For some, it's simply the size of the chair.
Huh.
Linda Vasquez, Walker's chief of staff.
I got her hired.
She's a woman, check, and a latina, check, but more important than that, she's as tough as a two-dollar steak.
Check, check, check.
When it comes to the White House, you not only need the keys in your back pocket, you need the gatekeeper.
As for me, I'm just a lowly house majority whip.
I keep things moving in a congress choked by pettiness and lassitude.
My job is to clear the pipes and keep the sludge moving.
But I won't have to be a plumber much longer.
I've done my time.
I backed the right man.
Happy new year! Give and take.
Welcome to Washington.
You need a haircut.
You think? A little trim.
What are you going to wear? You mean for the meeting? - For the announcement.
Gonna wear my navy blue, the one with the pinstripes.
Good.
You look handsome in that suit.
I don't know if they'll announce it before your board meeting.
Well, as long as I can say the donation is coming.
As soon as it's official, Sancorp will write you a check.
This is going to be a big year for us.
You know, the meeting's on Tuesday.
You're gonna wanna start with something That's what I'm hearing.
Community of what? Or I could say immigration, banking, or education, but none of my regular sources can confirm that.
Because they don't know, or because they're not talking? Because they don't know.
Keep at it.
Get me something.
Sorry.
Sorry, Mr.
Hammerschmidt.
Zoe.
Barnes.
- Right.
Did it take him a year to remember your name? Longer.
Good morning, Lucas.
What can I do for you, Zoe? I am sick of the Fairfax county council.
You tell me every day.
Move me online.
My own blog First person, subjective, 500 words.
Not going to happen.
- I'll go underground.
Back rooms.
The urinals.
I'll win over staff members on the hill.
They need a place to vent.
- A gossip column.
No.
We lift the veil, what's really going on.
This is the Washington Herald, Zoe.
It's not TMZ.
Do you know how many people watch TMZ? I couldn't care less.
Which is why print journalism is dying.
Then it'll die with dignity, at least at this paper.
You are stuck in the 20th century, Lucas.
You lack imagination.
Maybe so, but right now, I don't need imagination.
I need copy.
Your nights and weekends are yours.
I applaud whatever you want to do, as long as it's not on my time.
You're telling me to get back to work.
- I am.
What you're really telling me is to fuck off.
I'm telling you both.
It's Mr.
Chapman already from province trust.
Hold my calls, Christina.
Henry.
It's good to see you.
How long are you in town for? - Just today.
Well, you gotta come back down for the inauguration.
I can hook you up.
How about you hook me up with the zoning laws you promised to get changed? We got 12 million sitting in escrow for an empty lot we can't build on.
I know, but you gotta understand, it's a local municipal issue.
I can't just pick up the phone You can't? Because that's not what you led us to believe when you begged for 50 grand in donations.
Right.
I One second.
Christina, I said no calls, not while I'm meeting with Mr.
Chapman.
The president-elect? I do you mind? No.
Go ahead, please.
Uh, put him through, Christina.
Ahem.
Mr.
president-elect? Thank you.
Uh, yes, we were, uh We were pleased to win by double digits.
Absolutely.
Anything you need.
I need you to put your long, wet, talented tongue between my thighs and make me squeal like Monica Lewin Me, too.
Me, too.
Okay.
Thank you, sir.
I'm so sorry.
Uh, where were we? Walker What's he like? Mr.
president-elect running late? No, he couldn't make it.
I'll brief him, though.
Okay.
This is the memo I've drafted on our middle east policy we've been developing.
Now, I want to borrow from Reagan.
I'd like to coin the phrase "trickle-down diplomacy.
" That way - Frank, I'm going to stop you there.
We are not nominating you for secretary of state.
I know he made you a promise, but circumstances have changed.
The nature of promises, Linda, is that they remain immune to changing circumstances.
Garrett has thought long and hard about this, and he's decided we need you to stay in congress.
When was this decision made, and why wasn't I part of the conversation? I'm sorry, Frank.
If it had been up to me, I wouldn't have waited this long to tell you.
So, you knew you were going to do this.
It has been an evolving discussion.
It's a chicken-shit move.
Frank - I was vetted.
Was that a ruse? - No.
Let's be absolutely clear.
You wouldn't have won without me.
You're right, but now we have to lead, and that means making tough choices.
As you know, education is a top priority for us, a complete federal overhaul.
But it's not just education.
Frank, congress is split.
We need you there more than we need you in the state department.
I got you hired, Linda.
I know.
Donations, endorsements.
I wrote the campaign's entire foreign policy platform.
I bring years of foreign affairs committee Frank, please.
I want to speak to Walker personally.
The decision is made.
We need you, Frank.
Will you stand beside us or not? Of course.
If that's what the president wants.
I'm very glad to hear that.
I'm curious.
If not me, then who? Michael Kern.
Michael Kern? Well That is an excellent choice.
Can you make it more clear? I just want to make sure it doesn't look like we're neglecting our domestic No.
No, no, no.
I'm going to say that we're expanding our mission.
Okay.
And we're bringing on a new organization to help us.
Do you know which one yet? I'm still looking into a few options, but, um, tell me, what did we agree on, that we could hire how many new people? Six? Six, maybe seven.
- Hmm? We'll have enough.
Ooh, it's exciting, huh? This, uh, new direction we're heading.
I just don't know where we're going to fit all the people.
Well, do you think we have to look into additional space? No.
No, no, no.
I'll find a way.
Okay, so make the changes to the PowerPoint, and let's meet again at 2:30.
Okay.
Leave a message for Frank Underwood.
It's me.
I feel like an idiot leaving messages like this.
Call me back.
What is it, Zoe? Um I know you're going to have your hands full at the white house, so if you need someone to do research or Or print out background I think I'll be fine.
Well, if things get hectic and you need any help So you can blog about rubbing shoulders with the big boys? What did Lucas tell you? Look, no offense, Zoe, but I don't have time to be anyone's training wheels.
I just thought No, I was actually offering to lend a hand.
That's it.
- Got it.
Thanks.
Claire.
- You didn't call.
I was - You didn't call me, Francis.
Nine hours.
You don't not call me, not when it's this big.
You're right.
When have we ever avoided each other? I wanted the solution first.
Do you have one? Not yet.
This affects me, too, Francis.
And it's not the money I'm upset about.
It's that we do things together.
When you don't involve me, we're in free-fall.
I should've called you, and I didn't.
What happened? She says they needed to keep me in congress.
Linda said that? Walker wasn't even there.
That's what really gets me.
He didn't have the courage to look me in the eye.
I knew you shouldn't trust that woman.
I didn't.
I don't.
I don't trust anyone.
Then how could you not see this coming? I never thought they were capable.
You don't usually underestimate people, Francis.
I know.
Hubris.
Ambition.
You should be angry.
I'm livid.
Then where is that? I don't see it.
What do you want me to do? Scream and yell? Throw a tantrum? I want more than I'm seeing .
You're better than this, Francis.
Well, I'm sorry, Claire.
I am sorry.
No, that I won't accept.
What? - Apologies.
My husband doesn't apologize, even to me.
How long you been up? Hours.
I know what I have to do.
Good.
We'll have a lot of nights like this Making plans, very little sleep.
I expected that.
It doesn't worry me.
I'd better get to work.
I laid a suit out for you upstairs.
The Navy-blue one.
I love that woman.
I love her more than sharks love blood.
President-elect Garrett Walker has just Why do you think they went with him? We're too good.
They can't afford to lose us in congress.
He's had work done.
Chin tuck probably.
Definitely dyes his hair.
Do we say anything? No.
God, no.
Not unless he brings it up.
Nancy! - Cancel everything.
Stamper, you're with me.
Now, look They've done us a great favor, Doug.
We are no longer bound by allegiances.
We serve no one.
We live by one rule and one rule only Never again will we allow ourselves to be put in such a position.
Walker and Vasquez.
All of them.
I hold them all accountable.
Want retribution? - No.
No.
It's more than that.
Take a step back.
Look at the bigger picture.
I think I see what you're getting at.
Kern first? That's how you devour a whale, Doug One bite at a time.
Who would you want for Secretary of State? Give me a list of choices.
And however we do this, we'll also need a buffer.
You mean an errand boy.
Yes, someone we control completely.
I'll keep my ear to the ground.
Good.
I haven't eaten since yesterday.
I almost pity him.
He didn't choose to be put on my platter.
When I carve him up and toss him to the dogs, only then will he confront that brutal, inescapable truth "My God.
All I ever amounted to was chitlins.
" And he that shall humble himself shall be exalted.
Matthew, chapter 23, verse 12.
Thanks be to God.
I'd like to speak today on the subject of humility.
A lot of you have just won re-election.
If you hadn't, you might not be sitting here.
And, of course, we should enjoy our success and be grateful for it, but never let your gratitude sour into pride.
You'll have many challenges ahead over the next couple of years, and a person's character isn't determined by how he or she enjoys victory but rather how he or she endures defeat.
Nothing can help us endure dark times better than our faith.
Claire.
Oh, hello, Felicity.
How are you? - Good.
How are you? Good.
I'm sorry.
It's just not right.
Oh.
Charles and I can't understand what Walker was thinking.
Oh, that's very sweet of you, but really between you and me, I think Francis is relieved.
He just feels much more at home in congress.
I would've bet a million dollars they were gonna pick you.
Well, it's a good thing you have a million dollars to spare.
But you are, by far and away, the only choice.
I appreciate you saying that.
I mean, Michael? Come on.
He's got half the experience Garrett is a smart man.
He knows what he's doing.
You're a bigger man than I, Frank.
You, uh you want some of that wine? Yes, definitely.
Man, this is some good shit.
Where'd you get it? Uh, I kind of lifted it from the V.
I.
P.
room of the speaker's holiday party.
I'm impressed.
Bordeaux, 20 years old.
Oh, it seemed about right for you.
Ouch.
Why would you say that to me? I'm almost 30.
That's practically ancient in your book.
I don't discriminate when it comes to age.
Really? When was the last time you hired a 40-year-old staffer? Doesn't mean I wouldn't.
Well, as long as she's good in the sack.
Come on.
- Well, it's true, isn't it? Where is this coming from? You're not going to just toss me aside for some slut straight out of vassar.
So, we're having that conversation.
It's been six months.
It's not a little office fling anymore.
You want me to say those three magic words, one of which starts with an "L.
" Mm-mm.
No.
- Okay.
I'll say 'em.
Christina Gallagher Lick my balls.
Oh, my you bastard.
Hey.
- I love you.
I love you, Christina.
I love you.
Now will you lick my balls? So, I'm curious.
Are we patrons, benefactors, or lepers? Believe it or not, we're angels.
I'm going to go outside and pretend to use my cell phone.
Go.
Can I have your jacket? Yeah.
Here you go.
Are you going to bed? I'll be up in a bit.
Don't stay up all night.
No, I'll be right there.
Thanks so much.
I'll call you.
Wait.
I thought you had a good time.
Oh, I did.
I loved it.
I've never been before.
Well, maybe I could come up.
Oh, Ryan, you're so sweet.
Really.
But if I was gonna fuck you, you'd know.
Thanks so much.
She's here.
- Send her in.
It's quite rare for a president's chief of staff to climb the hill, a gesture of respect, no doubt, or desperation.
I'm guessing she'll say, "Donald Blythe for education.
" Let's see if I'm right.
Good morning, Linda.
Thank you so much for making the trip up.
Of course.
My pleasure.
Education.
- First things first.
The seating chart for the inauguration.
How do these two work for you and Claire? Wow.
They come with a complimentary set of tickets to the Jefferson ball.
Claire will be over the moon.
Good.
I'm so glad.
So education.
We have Donald Blythe drafting the legislation.
Donald blythe.
Jesus.
- I know.
So, you want a bill just two steps left of Karl Marx.
I advised the president-elect against it, but Donald is the face of education.
He's been pushing reform for 25 years.
You want me to guide him to the middle.
We need a bill we can pass.
Do I have absolute autonomy and authority on this? There's more.
Garrett wants the bill on the floor in the first 100 days.
He wants to make a pledge in his inaugural address.
Well, that's That's very ambitious, Linda.
Can we make that pledge? I can deliver.
Keep me posted.
- I'll talk with Donald.
I'll check in with you later in the week.
Terrific.
Did you smell that? The smugness, the false deference.
She thinks I can be bought with a pair of tickets.
What am I, a whore in post-war Berlin, salivating over free stockings and chocolate? What she's asking will cost far more than that.
Ferguson.
Too old.
Willis.
- Too stupid.
Boyd.
- Too queer.
Really? He's married with three kids.
And wouldn't they be devastated? All right.
What about Catherine durant? Cathy Durant? She was vocally anti-Walker.
She's got the experience.
Set up a meeting.
Hey.
The donation from Sancorp.
- Hmm? The money will have to come from somewhere else.
God, what what happened? I've looked over the budget for fiscal '13, and we've allocated We need to cut that in half.
Well, you're suggesting Evelyn, we're going to let some people go.
That would be half of our staff.
We have to carve out some room.
But you would have to fire some essential people who've been with us since the beginning.
We are a charity, but not for our employees.
You know, um, Claire, I have held my tongue about this whole international thing for a while, but I don't get it.
I mean, we are really good at what we do.
Why do we have to try and be something we're not? Because we've plateaued, Evelyn, and it is time for us, for our entire organization What, digging Wells in Africa? We don't know anything about that.
Which is why we have to bring in new people.
This is the plan that I've proposed to the board, and we are moving forward with it.
I'd like a list of names, please.
Claire, could we just think about this? I have thought about it.
I've put a lot of thought into it.
Yeah, but I think that we can really - Evelyn.
You're the office manager.
I need you to trust that I know what I'm doing, so please get me that list as soon as possible.
Oh, ma'am, you can't go up there.
- I'm sorry.
I just I just have one question.
- No, no.
You gotta come Sir, I apologize.
This woman Congressman.
- Miss, you need to step away from the fellow.
If I could just have one second.
- Step away from the Who are you? My name is Zoe Barnes.
I'm a reporter at the Washington Herald.
It is after 10:30 at night, and this is my home.
I do not allow any We're part of a mutual admiration society.
You're a fan of the symphony.
Well, more for the people watching than the music.
It's all right, Steve.
Come on in, miss Barnes.
It's strong.
Do you prefer it weak? No.
The stronger, the better.
There's no harm in looking.
It's a cheap ploy.
It's cheap but effective.
Well, you certainly have my undivided attention.
Good.
The reason I'm here Oh, is foreplay over? I read somewhere that JFK never lasted more than three minutes.
The point being? Time is precious.
Powerful people don't have the luxury of foreplay.
Okay, so why are you here, miss Barnes? I need somebody I can talk to.
We're talking.
Tell me what we're talking about.
I protect your identity, I print whatever you tell me, and I'll never ask any questions.
And what makes you think I don't already have such an arrangement with one of your colleagues? Because if you did, you wouldn't have let me through the door.
I've led a very long, very successful career avoiding this sort of intrigue with the press.
I can't see any advantage in starting now.
But is there any disadvantage? Sloppiness, for one.
I promise you absolute discretion.
So, we're talking about trust.
Use whatever word you like.
Words matter very much, miss Barnes.
You should care more about them, given your profession.
Then, yes Your trust.
So, which Zoe Barnes am I to trust? The one who wrote about the fireman that married the meter maid, or the one who authored a very fine article on a new jogging path in rock creek park? Don't be flattered.
I read everything.
I'm better than what they have me doing.
You know what that feels like.
- Do I? You'd have made a great secretary of state.
How exactly may I help you, miss Barnes? You must know the administration's legislative agenda, what's coming up first.
- I may.
Will you tell me? What would be your guess? Education.
- Why? Im-immigration is too controversial.
Tax reform isn't sexy enough.
Everyone can get behind children.
Is it education? - You might very well think that.
I couldn't possibly comment.
A hint.
- It's late, miss Barnes.
Can we talk again? - I hope you'll understand that I wanna sleep on all this.
I never make such big decisions so long after sunset and so far from dawn.
My cell phone's on the back.
Did you put miss Barnes in the visitors' ledger? Not yet.
Don't.
Needless to say.
- Needless.
Hello.
Claire! This is miss Zoe Barnes of the Washington herald.
She was just leaving.
Very nice to meet you, Mrs.
Underwood.
Drive safe.
There's a lot of ice on the road.
I will.
Thank you.
Does that work on anybody? Does what? The pushup bra and the v-neck tee.
Well, if it does, I don't know who they are.
Okay, relax, relax.
License and registration.
Uh, the glove compartment, sweetheart.
This isn't your driver's license.
It's a Starbucks card.
Oh, shit.
Sorry.
Sir, have you been drinking? No, I never drink coffee at this hour.
I'm going to need you to step out of the car.
Hey, if I was speeding, you can write me a ticket Sir, step out of the car right now.
Look, I don't want to be a prick, but I'm a member of Of congress.
I don't care if you're the king of China.
China doesn't h-ave a king.
It's a communist "agua-larchy.
" Oligar "Oliguarchy.
" - Let's go.
Out.
You, too, sweetie.
- Fuck.
That's hard to say.
Ahem.
Hello.
Good.
Well, let's get him out.
Gonna fly high like a bird up in the sky right now I've got a story, ain't got no moral let the bad guy win every once in a while I've got a story, ain't got no moral Mind if I join you? What the fuck is going on? I thought I was meeting with the congress No, you're meeting me.
It's 4:00 in the goddamn morning.
I got a city council meeting You've been police commissioner for what, almost a decade now? We're here to talk about my resume? "Mayor of D.
C.
" would look good on that resume, wouldn't it? We know that you've been angling to run for some time.
Experience is your strong suit.
Endorsement and fundraising, they're not.
We can help with that.
Russo.
Russo.
You're free to go.
It was just a few drinks.
It was enough to get pulled over.
But I wasn't drunk drunk.
Were you alone? - Yes.
Say that to my face.
Hey, watch the road.
- Say it to my face.
Yes I was alone.
You cannot keep doing this, Peter.
It's going to catch up with you.
I know.
Do you think we can arrange two more at our table for the Jefferson ball? For whom? - The Holburnes.
Why on earth would you want them there? I'm going to need her money for the C.
W.
I.
The staff cuts are just not enough.
I'll talk to Vasquez.
How are we doing? - Good.
Progress.
Irons in the fire.
I like irons, but I love fire.
Yes Ah.
What are you The bill is garbage, Donald.
Tax increases, ban on vouchers, federal oversight How do you expect me to get that through a committee? When Linda told me to write it, she promised I'm sure she said any number of things.
Forget what they promised you, Donald.
They want your name because it carries weight.
Well, my name comes with my ideas.
I understand, but you've got to be reasonable.
This isn't the great debate.
It's about passing meaningful reform.
Maybe not everything you would've hoped, but help me help you.
That's going to take time.
I those ideas, I've been developing them for If it's time you need, I will buy you time, but you've got to promise me your next-at-bat is going to give me something I can work with.
Okay, Frank, I'll see what I can do.
Good.
And, Donald, don't let this get you down, all right? Together we're going to do more than you've been able to do in 25 years.
Two things are now irrelevant Donald Blythe and Donald Blythe's new draft.
Eventually I'll have to rewrite the bill myself.
Forward! That is the battle cry.
Leave ideology to the armchair generals.
It does me no good.
Walker just nominated Kern.
It's a long road to confirmation.
Kern is a boy scout.
- Nobody's a boy scout.
Not even boy scouts.
What do you have? Absolutely nothing.
Then what are we talking about? Just asking a simple question.
Does the job interest you? Why would you want Michael gone? Cathy, you and I came up together.
The foreign affairs committee needs a secretary we can work with, someone who isn't afraid to stand up to Walker when he's wrong.
We need you.
Let's assume I am interested.
I don't want to assume.
I want to know.
Please hold.
Zoe Barnes.
Anywhere you want.
On my way.
I'm gonna have to call you back.
So sorry.
I couldn't catch a cab.
I had to take a train Just before you left my house Think back What were we discussing? The president's legislative agenda.
Specifically.
Education.
Was I right? Do the math, miss Barnes.
He needs a bill.
- Sponsored by You? - Be smarter than that.
Somebody with legitimacy.
- Good.
And who screams legitimacy and education? Donald blythe? - Correct.
The problem is He's an old-school tax-and-spend liberal.
Walker ran as a moderate.
You think Blythe would talk to me? He doesn't have to.
Wait.
We're in a very gray area Ethically, legally Which I'm okay with I just love this painting.
Don't you? We're in the same boat now, Zoe.
Take care not to tip it over.
I can only save one of us from drowning.
He announces his education initiative on Monday.
Half of the address is based on - I understand.
Do we need to take it out? - We're fine, Linda.
But you just got through saying he has to start over.
I didn't choose blythe.
You did.
You put him in my lap and asked me to work a miracle, and I will.
Now, have a little faith, Linda.
Let me work with Donald on this.
I know what can be accomplished in 100 days.
All right, Frank.
We're counting on you.
Good.
Now, I do have a little favor to ask.
Do you think I can get just two more tickets for my table at the Jefferson ball? Drink? - Uh, sure! What do you got? Whiskey.
Blend.
If you're offering.
So how are things in the city of brotherly love? We're getting by.
- Oh, good.
Good.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I made that neat.
Did you want - No, this is perfect.
So, it seems you've been a bit irresponsible.
What? Don't play dumb with me, Peter.
Save it for the ethics committee.
Drink up.
You could use a little courage right now.
You're not having one.
It's a bit early in the day for me.
Is this about the other night? How do you know about that? I'm the whip.
It's my job to know.
Look look, they let me off.
There's there's no charges.
It's all taken care of.
Honestly, Peter, do you really think these things just take care of themselves? You It was just this one time, Frank.
I swear to God.
Then you must hold God in very low esteem, because we both know that's a lie.
"Solicitation, controlled substances, driving under the influence.
" Got quite a long list of hobbies.
What is it you want? Your absolute, unquestioning loyalty.
Always.
Do not misunderstand what I mean by "loyalty.
" Anything.
Name it, Frank.
You seem far too relaxed.
- I'm not.
You shouldn't be.
Doug'll be in touch.
Hang on.
Where have you been? I've been calling you.
Everybody's working double-time in an inauguration, and you just up and disappear Hang on.
Let me call you back.
Where did you get this? - Wrong question.
The right question is, how quickly can we get it up on the site? I have to run this past tom.
Let's get legal on this.
Make sure we're not breaking any laws.
You won't tell me your source? - I can't do that.
Fine, but if legal finds even one - I understand.
How long do you think that will take? We should get this online right away.
I'm not just going to scan a 300-page document and put it up before we have gone through every I did that already.
- The whole thing? Cover to cover.
I've got excerpts, analysis.
You start going over them.
Get graphics.
Work on the tables, charts The whole nine yards.
Janine! What's the angle? Five words.
Far left of center.
- That's four.
Very far left of center.
- Enough to put Walker on his heels? Fuck his heels.
This'll put him on his ass.
What's up? We've got a copy of the administration's education bill.
You're going to work with Zoe and do background cover.
- Zoe Barnes? Right here.
- Whatever she needs.
Well, shouldn't I be writing the - She wrote it already.
And I want you to rewrite it, then rewrite it again.
You'll help her.
- Tom, I am your chief political correspondent.
Go! I want this by tomorrow.
But I need to focus on the inauguration.
- This is more important.
Let's get started.
"That I will faithfully execute the office" of president of the United States.
" That I will faithfully execute the office Power is a lot like real estate.
It's all about location, location, location.
The closer you are to the source, the higher your property value.
"And defend the constitution" Centuries from now, when people watch this footage, who will they see smiling just at the edge of the frame? "So help me God.
" - So help me God.
Congratulations.
Today is not about the next four years.
It's about the next four decades.
Now, you've placed your faith in me, and I, in turn, choose to place that faith in our children.
Our children are the key to this nation's future.
And that's why the first order of business for this administration will be a comprehensive education reform bill to properly fix, finance, and strengthen our nation's schools! And I pledge to you, we will have that bill on the floor of the congress within the first 100 days of this administration! It was so nice of you to make this possible.
When you called me, I was - Oh, not another one.
I'm gonna miss out on my ultimate frisbee league this week.
No, I'm serious.
A few of us on budget have quite a rivalry going with the guys on finance.
It's fierce.
We get physical.
Anybody gets between me and that goal line, I will take that sucker down! Donald, I've been looking for you everywhere.
Maestro, here, let me help you out with this.
I really like the work you've done on the new draft.
It's a big step forward.
We're gonna make history together.
Thanks for the encouragement.
Francis, listen I've got some ideas about subsidies for higher education Catherine! Hold onto that thought, Donald.
Don't you look stunning! We Southern girls clean up well when we get out of our Daisy Dukes and into some vera wang.
- And we Southern boys are slow with our words, but we're fast on our feet.
May I have the honor? You most certainly may.
Mornin', Freddy.
- Good morning, Frank.
How's tricks? - I can't kick.
You want to go on in? - No.
Why don't you set me up outside? Outside? It's freezing out here.
Well, a little cold never hurt anybody.
Anything you say, Frank.
It'll be right up.
My one guilty pleasure is a good rack of ribs, even at 7:30 in the morning.
Have the whole place to myself.
Freddy sometimes opens up just for me.
Where I come from in South Carolina, people didn't have two pennies to rub together.
A rack of ribs is a luxury, like Christmas in July.
This web traffic's absolutely crazy.
Blue Camry, D.
C.
Plate number whiskey, Juliet, 0-0-2-niner is wanted in connection to a canine hit-and-run.
Code 1057, found on capital Mmm.
Do you want seconds, Frank? I'd better not.
Tell you what, Freddy Yes, I will.
I'm feeling hungry today.



Read more: https://www.springfieldspringfield.co.uk/view_episode_scripts.php?tv-show=house-of-cards-2013&episode=s01e01

You know what I like about people? They stack so well.
Let me get this for you.
- Want the paper? - No.
This is too much.
It's not half enough.
Thanks for opening up for me.
Any time, day or night.
You know that.
In a town where everyone's so carefully reinventing themselves, what I like about Freddy is that he doesn't even pretend to change.
Ooh.
I'm late.
Every Tuesday I sit down with the speaker and the majority leader to discuss the week's agenda.
Well, discuss is probably the wrong word.
They talk while I sit quietly and imaging their lightly salted faces frying in a skillet.
Vasquez must be shitting herself.
Shitting herself, or Walker is shitting himself and shoveling his shit on her shit.
Bob, I'm planning on eating.
Do we have a backup on the docket? You're on that, right, Frank? Yeah, I'm working with my staff-- Republicans are gonna ram this up our ass.
I would if I was them.
Why, even if we squeak it through the house, watch them mangle it in the senate.
- Or filibuster.
- Why, sure, if it looks anything like this.
I don't know why Walker's trying to tackle a charging elephant.
It's madness.
Congressmen, sorry to interrupt, but I saw you sitting over here-- Remy.
Gentlemen, this is Remy Danton.
Remy, this is Speaker Birch and Congress-- I'm well aware.
Mr.
Speaker, Congressman.
Remy just made partner at Glendon Hill.
Glendon Hill? Great team over there.
- Congratulations.
- Thank you.
When was the last time they added a partner? It's been a while.
Well, they know a winner when they see one.
Remy was the best press secretary I ever had.
Why did you let him go? I didn't.
They stole him away.
What accounts do you have? San Corp Industries is my main one.
I run that account now.
Anyhow, I'll let you get back to it.
Sorry again to interrupt.
No problem.
Very nice to meet you both.
- Nice.
- Lobbyists keep getting younger and younger.
He's probably making more than all of us combined.
Gentlemen, this one's on me.
I'm gonna track down that check.
Glendon Hill fronts San Corp Industries.
San Corp is deep into natural gas.
I don't give a hoot about natural gas, but I have 67 deputy whips, and they all need cash to win races.
San Corp helps me purchase loyalty, and in return they expect mine.
It's degrading, I know, but when the tit's that big, everybody gets in line.
Tell them I'm on top of it.
I need more than that.
You are well aware that I do not drop the ball on things like this, Remy.
Promises, Frank.
Secretary of State, Argentine and offshore drilling contracts-- talk to me when I've solved the problem.
Don't waste my time when I'm working on solving the problem.
When there's billions on the line, I can't not show up.
Fine.
Thank you for your diligence.
Eight figures to you and the D triple C.
of yours in your name.
- I know.
- Don't make them throw money at your challenger next cycle.
You've made your point.
Have I? I hope so.
Such a waste of talent.
He chose money over power-- In this town, a mistake nearly everyone makes.
Money is the McMansion in Sarasota that starts falling apart after ten years.
Power is the old stone building that stands for centuries.
I cannot respect someone who doesn't see the difference.
What am I looking at? The Williams register.
- Williams? - College.
September '78.
And why am I looking at it? The editorial.
Not that interesting.
Michael Kern went to Williams.
Check out the masthead.
And then there's this.
It's thin.
The guy's a unicorn.
He pisses rainbows.
- You think we can get traction with this? - I think you could.
Linda Vasquez is on the phone.
Ah, I'm surprised it took her this long.
It's only 6 past 9:00.
Which means she read the Herald 3 hours ago and spent the past 2 1/2 getting reamed by the president.
Tell her I'm on my way.
You were supposed to keep Donald in line.
You assured me that you-- this particular agenda.
We got between the mother bear and her cub.
It's a setback.
That's all.
On our first day in office.
Linda, I've worked with four presidents.
Setbacks are a dime a dozen with a bill of this size.
Frank, if you can't control this-- I don't take well to being micromanaged, Linda.
You want to do my job for me and run the White House? Good luck.
I won't stand in your way.
Okay, Frank.
Fine.
This is yours now.
If this thing can't make it to the floor in the first 100 days, then I'll let you explain to the president why he lied to the American people.
I'm gonna get back to work.
Please do.
Well, we really should be doing this on a Friday instead of a Wednesday.
If we do it on a Friday, - people have the weekend-- - Fine.
We'll do it on Friday.
Is all the paperwork ready? Some of the more senior people are trickier.
There's severance.
But we shouldn't run into any legal issues.
No, no.
We use at-will employment contracts across the board.
Well, get started first thing Friday.
I want all of the exit interviews done by lunch.
Claire, I just can't help but think that this is a mistake.
We've discussed this already, Evelyn.
I know, I know, but I just have to say it for the sake of my conscience.
I think that you are dismantling what we have built over the past ten years, and I-- and I think the way you're handling this isis cruel.
It's not easy, Evelyn.
But it's necessary.
You have always asked me to be honest with you.
It's how we work together.
I disagree with something, I say it.
Well, I disagree 100%.
Please, Claire, don't do this.
I respect your opinion, Evelyn, and I appreciate you sharing it with me, but I'm not going to change my mind.
Friday, then.
If that's what you want.
This is major reform, a complete overhaul.
That would usually take months.
Well, we only have days, not months.
But think about the process.
We can't just change-- When I ask my colleagues, your bosses, who are the smartest minds in education, out of hundreds, we arrived at you-- the six of you in this room.
Now, I realize it is a difficult task, but we have the opportunity to make history here.
And I want all of us to make it together.
So good luck.
We're counting on you.
Page 1.
These bullet points reflect the key planks at the center of our bill.
Get comfy.
This is your home until we have a presentable first draft.
Donald, what a morning.
I have no idea how they got this.
I specifically told my staff to destroy everything.
I can't imagine-- It doesn't matter how it happened.
We can't make it unhappen, so we have to adapt.
Don't they realize that this is a first draft? All we have here really is a perception problem.
We don't get a second chance at a first impression, Donald.
You know that.
Now, look, I'm on your side, but Linda is furious.
What's she saying? They want to point fingers.
At me? I told her we cannot do that.
I mean, you are vital to this process.
I'm up to here with them, Donald-- for lying, for turning their back on you.
You know, I'm of a mind to say screw it.
I'll fall on this grenade myself, just to piss them off.
Give me John king at CNN.
Wait, Frank.
This is not your fault.
No, we have to protect your reputation.
But you're the man that needs to get the bill through the house.
I will-- hang on.
I will assign it to one of my deputies, quietly manage it, and help guide you through the process.
I am not comfortable with this.
Well, then what do you suggest we do? What a martyr craves more than anything is a sword to fall on, so you sharpen the blade, hold it at just the right angle, and then 3, 2, 1-- It should be me.
It was my bill.
No.
Impossible.
Donald, education has been your life's work.
The truth is my heart is not in this fight.
You know me.
I'm not a wheeler dealer.
I can put my mind to policy, but I'm no good at this brand of politics.
Well, if not you, then who? It should be you, Frank.
You're formidable.
People respect you.
They will follow your lead.
Let me-- let me be on the sidelines for this.
Well, I could only consider that as an option if I knew that I could still come to you for counsel.
Of course.
Whatever you need.
Part of me is glad this got leaked.
Well, it would have been better if it hadn't, but at least people know where I stand.
Thank you, Donald.
Happy to do it, Frank.
He has no idea we've got six kids in the next room already working on a new draft.
Stamper! But why dampen his mood by telling him? We just gave him a great gift-- a chance to fulfill his destiny.
Write up a statement for Blythe-- stepping aside, fresh ideas, et cetera, et cetera, and make it dignified.
He's a good man.
Oh.
And bring me that Williams editorial.
After careful thought and discussion with my staff, I am relinquishing my management of the education reform act.
I hope to remain a part of the process, but I won't be working-- Why did you leak the draft? I'm not exactly sure how it got leaked, but, uh, it does represent-- it came from your office, though, correct? Uh, we wrote it, but I don't-- Who'll be managing the bill now? Frank Underwood.
Was that your choice, or did the administration-- I feel very confident placing the bill in Frank's capable hands.
Ms.
Barnes.
How very deep throat of you.
Well, I can't help you dispatch a president.
How about a senator? The editorial on the Camp David accords.
"It is the opinion of this newspaper "that President Carter demand Israel "withdraw all its citizens from the Gaza Strip and West Bank.
" "Which it has illegally occupied since 1967.
" Illegally occupied.
That's quite an incendiary quote, don't you think? For an administration that says that the Middle East is its top foreign policy priority.
Michael Kern? Did he personally write the editorial? He was the editor.
But did he write it himself? Then there's no story.
I'm saying it's a question worth asking.
And if he denies involvement? He will.
Let him.
This is a man trying to be confirmed as Secretary of State.
Everything is a story.
There's no direct link.
I can't get this past Messerschmidt.
Remember this moment when you resisted me, when you said the words "Then there is no story.
" Get a good night's sleep, Ms.
Barnes.
You have a big day tomorrow.
Francis? What is this? What does it look like? But the basement is mine.
I know.
It's not for me.
So who's it for? For you.
There's a gym in the Capitol.
Which you never use.
Because I'm a tad busy running the country.
But not at home, so now you have no excuse.
I want it out.
Give it a try first.
Is this your subtle way of saying that I'm out of shape? No, it's my way of suggesting you could be in better shape.
That sounds both passive-aggressive and condescending.
Just plain aggressive and true.
Don't wait up for me.
Are you going running now? Yes, because I couldn't this morning.
I had an early meeting.
Use the monstrosity.
It's freezing out.
You break it in.
It looks positively medieval, doesn't it? And to turn my only sanctuary into a fitness dungeon.
I won't have it.
It's a stretch.
We're not misleading anyone.
- He was the editor.
- Did you call for a comment? I tried three times.
The press secretary said he'd get back to me.
- He didn't.
- What about research? You couldn't find anything to echo the editorial? No quotes, no op-ed pieces? Don't you think if something like that existed, someone would have printed it by now? Nobody else has this, Lucas.
I don't think there's a story here.
I'm not saying there's a story.
All I'm saying is that there's a question that needs to be answered.
This is a nominee for Secretary of State.
We have an editorial on Palestine and Israel.
Which he didn't write.
Which we don't know he didn't write.
Exactly.
We don't have to print it.
I could just scan the thing, stick it on a site, and tweet the link.
But if I did that, some other paper might-- Whoa, whoa.
Don't be a bitch.
I'll talk to Tom.
That's all I was asking.
We simply can't afford to allow the-- We got a guy who's almost perfect.
He's a libertarian drug fiend - marinating in a mobile home.
- Shh.
I didn't agree with President Reagan on many things, but there was some merit to the notion of trickle-down economics, and I feel there is much merit to the idea of trickle-down diplomacy.
Those are my lines.
Vasquez must have given them to him.
stalemate between Israel and Palestine, that success will trickle down to a hundred other diplomatic dilemmas between Muslims, Jews, Christians-- I'm glad you brought up Israel and Palestine because just before we came on the air, I received an advance copy of an article that's going to be in tomorrow's Washington Herald's front page and was written by Zoe Barnes, and in it she quotes an editorial that ran in the Williams college register when you were editor back in September 1978, which called the Israeli presence in the Gaza Strip and West Bank, quote, an illegal occupation.
- Can I see that? - Sure.
Did you write those words, "illegal occupation"? No.
I have no memory of this.
But you were the editor of the paper.
Yes, but-- So it couldn't have gone out without your approval.
No, of course not, but my staff-- somebody else usually wrote the, uh, the, uh-- and then we'd vote, and if-- Did you vote for it? Honestly, George, I can't remember.
It was 35 years ago.
So you're not sure whether or not you supported these words-- I can tell you without a shadow of a doubt I did not write these words.
But were they in line with your thinking at the time? This is ludicrous.
That's all we need-- him laughing.
I know it was a long time ago-- Nancy, get me Dennis Mendel of the ADL.
The Middle East is a vital American interest.
What you think about the Middle East is relevant.
You can look at my voting record.
Every single vote has been in defense of Israel-- So when did your views change? What I'm saying to you is my-- What's important now, George, is how I have voted while I have represented the great state of Colorado-- I understand that's your position, but a lot of other people are going to look at it and think what you thought then is relevant as well.
Have you ever changed your views - since college? - I'm not the nominee for Secretary of State.
Uh, even if I did have-- It's golden.
This has not been my views-- It's a bull's eye.
What were you saying when you came in? So, ahem, I found a guy who was on the college editorial staff when Kern was there.
This burnout, still pumping mimeographed manifestos out of a trailer park in the Berkshires.
You're not planning on talking to him.
Peter Russo.
Good.
Sounds like a perfect match.
Dennis.
Any chance you're watching Stephanopoulos? You look sexy when you're improving the lives of hardworking Pennsylvanians.
Is it the improving lives, or is it these fetching sweat pants? Move that computer out of the way.
Let me see what that looks like.
Yeah, it's better with the laptop.
Fuck off.
You're not paying enough attention to me.
I pay attention to you all day at the office.
Hey, you know, I don't think I've ever seen you brush your teeth before.
- Sure you have.
- No, I don't think so.
I know that you do brush, but I don't think I've ever actually witnessed it before.
Well, here it is in all its glory.
Is that my toothbrush? I don't know.
Is it? Yes, it is.
- You left it here.
- Peter, gross.
Oh, come on.
We've exchanged plenty of fluids.
Ohh.
Hey, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
No.
Toothpaste.
It's not toothpaste.
I'm ravished.
No.
Mm.
Go get it.
- I have to take this.
- Ohh.
This is Russo.
Yeah.
Right now it's 12:53.
Okay.
Okay, okay, okay.
I have to go.
Is everything okay? It's work stuff.
What kind of work stuff? Congressman Wallinski.
He wants to go over the tax incentive stuff we sent him.
Peter, it's 1:00 in the morning.
Hey, Peter.
I have meetings tomorrow.
I have a committee hearing.
Congress will survive without you.
Address, directions.
There's an e-ticket in your name.
Your flight leaves at 6:30.
- You should head to the airport.
- This is coming from Frank? No.
This is coming from no one.
You have the flu, and you're calling in sick.
- What's that? - What's what? Is that a hickey? Are you whoring around again? - No.
I have a girlfriend.
- Mm.
You mean your little office romance.
What do you know about that? When it comes to your life, Peter, and what I know about it, you should assume that there's no such thing as a secret.
Stay in touch.
You call me on my cell, never at the office.
Good luck.
Knock 'em dead, tiger.
How are we? Overtired, under-caffeinated, but we're making progress.
- Less than a week to go.
- Yeah.
We'll do our best.
- You'll what? - We'll get it done.
Somebody open a window.
It's rancid in here.
That is what happens when six people don't shower for half a week.
Anything you need other than deodorant? Yeah, this performance standards thing.
- The teachers unions are gonna-- - Leave it in.
- But we could delete it.
- I'll handle the unions.
What else? Anything? Conjugal visits? I'll get back to work.
Nancy.
- Coming.
- What do I have next? Constituent calls from 2:10 to 2:35, - fundraising until 3:50, deputy caucus at 4:00.
- The call list? - It's on your desk.
- My briefing for the caucus? - Next to the call list.
- Have you been in the conference room? Have it steam cleaned over the weekend.
In the meantime, get those poor kids some Febreze or something.
It's like a petting zoo.
You gotta see this.
But were they in line with your thinking at the time? We do not consider the issue of Israel and Palestine a laughing matter.
And he calls Israel illegal.
Well, he's an anti-semite, and he is wrong.
We would have grave, grave concerns about appointing such a man our next Secretary of State.
It's too easy.
Roy, hi.
My name is Peter Russo.
Congressman Russo.
I'd like to just speak to you for just a Sir? Either you're lying, and you can fuck off; or you're telling the truth, and you can absolutely fuck off.
I saw your web site.
I'm a fan.
And I brought you something.
Hey, babe, put some clothes on.
- What? - We got a guest.
So? Hey.
Put some clothes on.
Ice or no ice? - Uh, no ice.
- Good.
We don't have any.
Fuck.
Echo, I told you to put the-- It's okay.
It's okay.
I'll keep your secret if you keep mine.
A congressman, you say? Right now, I'm just a drinking companion.
Well, all right, companion.
Have yourself a drink.
Come on in.
$10,000.
What will that get me? I mean, I'm kinky, but I don't know if I'm the girl you're looking for.
You're definitely the girl that I'm looking for.
Excuse me.
All I want for that money is your silence.
My what? The guy you were with the other night, the one who was arrested, do you know who he was? You mean the congressman? There was no congressman.
There was no arrest.
None of that exists.
All that exists is the money sitting right there in front of you.
Do you understand? Yeah.
Good.
Open your mouth.
Last little bit's for me.
You're scolding me.
Am I? You are, silently.
- Is it the rowing machine? - You tell me.
It's the rowing machine.
- You haven't used it.
- How do you know I haven't? Francis.
You know I don't like to be managed.
I'm not trying to manage you.
I just don't want to outlive you by 25 years.
I must walk three miles a day around that Capitol.
I'm constantly on my feet.
And do you know how many calories the brain burns? I'm not worried about your brain.
It's your heart we're talking about.
Use the machine.
She's right.
I should take better care of myself.
But it's the principle.
I won't be a slave to anybody or anything you can order with a toll-free number.
We share the wealth in this republic.
I thought the whole editorial team pitched in.
Sometimes.
Not that time, though.
But he must have written some of it? No.
That was all me.
What if people thought he wrote it? Oh, fuck that.
He's a fraud.
Nah, he's worse than a fraud.
He's a fucking farce.
I'll tell you something.
He used to be even more of a maniac than I am.
- Chemicals? - No.
Politics.
Oh, we had some nights, man.
Long conversations, dangerous fucking notions.
- Like what? - You name it-- OPEC, Pinochet, the fucking Food Stamp Act.
Then the motherland sang her mating call.
O say can you-- Next thing, he's cramming for the bar at Bryn Mawr and snapping on a flag pin.
Does Bryn Mawr have a law school? My point is, he started goose-stepping in the marionette parade.
Left, right; red, blue; Democrat, Republican.
We're all dangling from the same strings.
Take a sledgehammer to the whole fucking Punch and Judy show.
- That's what's required.
- Thought you were a patriot.
Fuck, yeah.
One of the few.
- So what's wrong with public service? - Public service? Come on.
You gotta get a grip on who your masters are.
The I.
M.
F.
, the World Bank, the Rockefeller Trilateral Commission.
You bankroll their fucking death squads.
It's called FEMA; it's called alcohol, tobacco, and firearms; NATO; Border Control.
You think Katrina was incompetence? That was highly orchestrated negligence.
Look at Waco, Amnesty International, the A.
C.
L.
U.
Smokescreens-- all of them.
Blood on their hands.
Well, exactly.
You want me to lie to the people.
I want you to spare the people another hypocrite.
What's in it for you? Poetic justice.
Oh, come on.
You're one of them.
Can a corporate sellout roll a joint like this? Lord knows, I can't change If I wanted to do this thing, how might I go about that, precisely? How did it go? There were a few tears here and there and some anger, but nothing unexpected.
I'm going to need you to leave us today, too, Evelyn.
I'm sorry.
I just can't have any doubt about the direction I'm taking.
You just had me fire 18 people.
I know.
I sat across from them in this room, and I had to tell each and every one of-- I know.
I am 59 years old.
Nobody hires anybody my age.
I will write you any kind of recommenda-- To do what, bag groceries? What am I supposed to tell my daughter? I'm sorry, Evelyn.
I truly am.
No, you're not.
You don't give a fuck.
Eighteen people, Claire.
Nineteen, if you count me.
I have to I have to call my daughter.
I know today has been tough.
A lot of your colleagues have left, and I owe you an explanation.
Many of those who left us today helped build the C.
W.
I.
from the ground up, and I'm grateful to them.
But it is time for us to evolve, and to accomplish this, we had to make hard choices and bring in new people.
That's what today was about.
You have any questions, my door is always open.
I'm all good for national and metro.
We've got space for political if we need it.
Janine, anything new on Michael Kern? The White House is dodging.
You can't get anyone on record? Not just me.
They're shutting all of us down in the briefings.
No one is giving an inch, even on background.
In the meantime, I'm working on a feature about the administration's foreign policy agenda.
How it shifted from the start of the campaign, - increased D.
O.
D.
spending, and-- - Received, Zoe.
I can link Kern directly to the Williams editorial.
- What? - I've got a guy named Roy Kapeniak who was on the editorial staff when Kern was there.
Hey, Twitter twat, W.
T.
F.
? - Wait, wait, wait.
Roy what? - Kapeniak.
A classmate of Kern's.
I have him on record saying Kern wrote every word - of the editorial.
- Let's move this into my office.
Zoe, Lucas.
Janine.
Let me-- let me, once and for all, say this definitively: I didn't author that editorial.
Not a single sentence, word, comma, or period.
If memory serves me, it was Mr.
Kapeniak who wrote it.
Why on earth he's trying to claim that I did is beyond me.
Let me further say that I'm a strong supporter of the state of Israel.
As the most stable country in the region - and our strongest ally - It's Frank Underwood for Cathy.
in any peace process, because without the stability of Israel, there can be no Palestine.
CNN right now.
"Without Israel there can be no Palestine"? - I've got it on.
- I would remind Senator Kern that there was a Palestine long before there was an Israel.
His comments are not only ignorant, they are racist.
Get ready, Cathy.
Things are about to move very quickly.
- his understanding of the Middle East-- - Okay.
- is so out of sync with reality - I'm ready.
Hey.
- Peter? No.
Stop.
- Uh, not now.
Hey.
Hey, where have you been? Oh, God, you're fucking high.
- No.
I-- - Yes, you are.
Look at your eyes.
Oh, please, just lay off.
You promised me it wouldn't be like this.
Cancel whatever I have for the rest of the day.
Kern is out.
They're tossing him? Technically, that would draw himself, but yes.
Can I say "A source close to the White House"? No.
You let this story play out on its own time.
They'll announce in the morning.
I'm sorry.
If not that, what story are we talking about? Catherine Durant.
As soon as Kern withdraws, you say she'll be the replacement.
- Is that true? - It will be after you write it.
Roy Kapeniak was you.
You might very well think that.
I couldn't possibly comment.
You found him.
You had him call me.
Kapeniak and Kern were appetizers, Miss Barnes.
Catherine Durant is the meal.
Say that name: Catherine Durant.
Say it over and over.
Tomorrow afternoon, write it down, and then watch that name come out of the mouth of the President of the United States.
This is where we get to create.
Don't miss your train, Miss Barnes.
It's the last one tonight.
Zoe Barnes with the Washington Herald now reporting, quoting a source close to the president, as saying that Senator Catherine Durant will likely be the new nominee for Secretary of State after Michael Kern's withdrawal earlier this week.
The White House has remained silent on whether the president will tap Durant for a nomination, but a national Zogby Poll shows wide support for Durant across party lines.
Catherine Durant has served ten years on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, made numerous diplomatic missions to South America We can place our faith in her, knowing that we have a responsible, experienced, brilliant woman representing our interests abroad.
Middle of the road, team player, strong in defense.
If there's a woman that can work with the joint chiefs, she's the one.
Durant is the way to go.
It's a no-brainer.
The president should stop this pageant and simply make the call.
Why are we still talking about, if they're going to nominate Durant? Why don't they just do it already so we can all stop talking about ifs and start talking about when and what and how Durant's going to shape up foreign policy So, history? History.
I'm very impressed, Frank.
Good.
With your go-ahead, I'll start the mock-up.
Have Birch and Rasmussen seen this? Not yet.
I wanted you to be the first to have a look.
I'll schedule a time for you to fill in the president.
Oh, no, no, no.
That is your turf, Linda.
You should do that.
- Thank you, Frank.
- My pleasure.
Thank you.
- I so apologize for everything-- - No, no, no, n-- it's not necessary.
Now for the real meeting.
So what is happening with Michael Kern? Oh, it's a total nightmare.
You know who you're gonna tap next? Frank, we still need you in the house-- No, no, no.
I wouldn't dream of it.
We've got our education bill.
I was just curious.
Somehow the rumor is flying around that we're gonna nominate Catherine Durant.
- I'm sure you've noticed.
- Is the rumor true? Well, we weren't considering her at first, but the president asked me to have her vetted in case we wanna go that route.
- Interesting.
- What do you think? Well, she wouldn't be my first choice-- Who would be your first choice? She campaigned hard against us in the primaries.
- That's my reservation.
- But you'd show yourself above party politics, and I know she'd work all the harder for it.
Decent experience, respect across the aisle.
So you think we can seriously consider her? It's not the worst idea in the world.
- Where are you getting this shit? - What? - Your stories.
Who are you fucking? - I was just-- - Nobody.
- Oh, come on.
You're a metro scrub, and now look at you.
You'd have to be fucking somebody important.
I'm just doing my job, Janine.
Excuse me.
All set.
- Is this your first remote? - Yeah, it's my first time.
Right into the camera, don't shift in your seat, and there's no reason to speak above a conversational volume.
- The mic will pick you up.
You all ready? - Yeah.
All right.
Don't forget to breathe.
Five, four We'd like to welcome Zoe Barnes from the Washington Herald.
Zoe, thank you for joining us.
I'm very glad to be here.
Thank you for having me.
You broke the education bill, the Kern editorial, and now Durant.
I'm just thrilled to be reporting news that matters.
And it's truly been a team effort.
Everyone at the Herald pitched in.
But, yes, a lot of firsts.
First national story, first Thank you.
Calling it a night.
See you tomorrow, sir.
But, yes, a lot of firsts.
First national story, first front-page byline, first TV interview.
I would wave to my mom, but the cameraman said not to shift in my seat.
What a roller coaster.
It really is too bad.
Kern was a good man.
- And now Catherine Durant.
- Yes.
Right place, right time, I suppose.
- We like her, don't we? - Very much.
Question is, does she like San Corp as much as we like her? I would say that that is a very good bet.
But then again, I'm not a betting man.
- No.
You always like a sure thing.
- When it avails itself.
- Good night, Remy.
- Good night, Frank.
- See you around.
- Hopefully less and less now.
Oh, no.
I charged the wrong thing.
- What did you have again? - A medium decaf latte.
Med lat, dec.
I don't know how to get it to go back.
- This one and this one.
- This one? No.
Let me do it.
I have to ask you to stay back, congressman.
- What's going on? - Some guy was trying to get into the building.
When we said no, he started tearing his clothes off.
Nobody can hear you.
Nobody cares about you.
Nothing will come of this.
Why don't you let these nice gentlemen take you home? Cover him up.
It's cold out here.
You heard the congressman.
Cover him up.
Francis?
Page 43, section 7.
We'd like some clarification.
Section 7 has to do with the evaluative measures-- "Evaluative measures.
" What we're talking about here are performance standards, plain and simple.
We can't have that.
We open that can of worms-- Gotta take it out, Frank.
The administration wants it in.
Then we're all wasting our time.
Well, look, I can cut down the frequency of testing, but it's got to be part of the overall-- That's the thin edge of a two-ton wedge.
- No way, non-debatable.
- All right, hold on.
There's no harm in hearing them out, right? Frank, what do you have in mind? We adjust article 4.
Hand me article 4.
We go every three years instead of two.
Frank, for us to even consider testing-- Marty, we can't negotiate time intervals here.
If-- I'm just saying if-- The frequency could never be more than five years.
Look, five is a little high, but if you can bend on that-- - Marty.
- Wait, wait, wait.
And it's not just frequency.
Veteran teachers would have to be exempt if they have a proven record of excellence with the students.
Well, excuse me for a moment.
Corey, will you take the reins on this? Right, so, article 4-- in terms of exceptions-- I've been saying for years that we should tear it down.
It's vulgar, it's an embarrassment to the county, but time and time again Frank Underwood has fought to keep it standing.
If it weren't for him, the Peachoid would've been replaced ages ago.
And Jessica masters would still be alive.
The congressman needs to answer for this tragedy.
What exactly happened? A 17-year-old girl ran off the road texting her boyfriend, and I quote, "doesn't the Peachoid look like a giant" - And then she lost control of the car.
- Jesus.
Orrin's making a big fuss in the local press.
And he's pushing the parents to sue Gaffney.
Sue Gaffney? It's in his own jurisdiction.
It's worth throwing Gaffney under the bus to drag you into the mess.
He's after my seat again.
Has he learned absolutely nothing? It's a full-on smear campaign, boss.
He's out to destroy you.
With this? It's a peach, for Christ sake.
Let him make a fool out of himself.
No, he will make a fool out of you.
If he spins this right, gets national coverage-- National coverage? It's a joke.
And you will be the butt of it.
We can't afford that right now, not when you're in the spotlight with the education bill.
This thing has caused me so much damn trouble.
- I know.
- So who should I call, parents? Phone call's not going to cut it.
- You need to go down there.
- Can it wait until Monday? We get on this thing right now, we can contain it.
We wait until Monday, then there's no way to know how much this is going to blow up on us.
I can't go down to Gaffney.
The unions have just-- - We postpone-- - They're gonna be livid.
Marty's reasonable, okay? He will explain to them.
And they're just supposed to understand and accept that I had to get up from the negotiating table because some two-bit county administrator wants to-- I don't want to interrupt you, sir, but this is not just about Orrin.
It's about the parents.
Now, you think about the lawsuit.
What happens if you have to testify? Subpoenas, depositions.
You get dragged into a court battle, there is no education bill.
We can't ignore this.
I just hate this small-ball crap.
It's called the what? The peach what? The Peachoid.
It's a giant water tower in the shape of a peach.
Oh, wow.
I just googled it.
"The Peachoid.
" She was 17, Linda.
You're right.
I'm sorry.
- I need another week.
- No, that's not going to work.
The president makes his speech on Tuesday.
We've already announced.
Speeches can be rescheduled.
We have to show some progress on education, Frank.
The first hundred days is almost over.
If we push back the speech, it'll look like we're spinning our wheels.
All right, I'll work something out.
Thank you, Linda.
Frank, these are the heads of the two largest teachers unions in the country.
- I understand.
- They flew here on a weekend.
Doug will lead the charge.
Congressman Phillips is well vetted-- They flew here to see you, Frank.
You're managing this bill.
Put this in the other bag.
And I'll be in constant communication.
Anything big comes up, I'm a phone call away.
It's a 300-page document.
We need you in that room.
I would stay if I could, but this is my home district.
Now, Marty, cut me a little slack here.
We'll get it done.
You and I go way back.
Have I ever let you down? No, you haven't.
And I don't intend to start now.
Hello? - Gillian? - Claire.
It's so nice to finally meet you.
Yeah-- I'm a little under the weather.
I don't want to get you sick.
Well, if you're feeling ill, we can-- No, no, no, I'm fine.
It's just a cold.
Well, thank you for coming in.
Of course.
Shall we talk in my office? These are really cool photographs.
Oh, thank you.
Adam Galloway took the pictures.
Have you heard of him? No.
I met him at the Whitney biennial a couple years ago and commissioned him to do these.
He just had a big show at ps1.
I'm not up to date on the art world.
That's all right.
We're not here to talk about photography.
Are we? My office is over here.
You run into any trouble, you call me.
I got it covered.
Gene Clancy know I'm coming? Just spoke to him.
Get to it.
Your flight is booked, leaves in 55 minutes.
Ed will be joining you.
Where's Steve? He went home sick about an hour ago, sir.
I'll be filling in.
What's your name again? Edward what? - Meacham.
- You drive fast, Meacham? You wanted to talk to me? Come on, Zoe.
This is Mrs.
Tilden, owner of-- She knows who I am.
Mrs.
Tilden liked your profile on Catherine Durant.
No, I didn't.
I loved it.
In depth, uncompromising.
Normally I don't read things before they go to print, but Cathy's a friend.
Tell me how you knew she'd be nominated before she did? You want my source? Tom says you won't tell him.
I haven't told anyone.
Well, I own the paper.
And I'm very grateful to be working here.
So you're not going to tell me either.
Which do you want, my source or my integrity? Tom.
Move Zoe's piece to the front page of Sunday's edition.
Let me think that over.
You think it over as much as you want.
Then put it on the front page.
I've worked really hard to gain a foothold with world well.
Six years ago it was just me and a macbook.
I understand.
And I had to juggle two temp jobs just to pay the rent.
It's your baby.
You don't want to let it go.
Well, I just-- And you wouldn't have to, Gillian.
All I want is for you to grow what you've already built.
I heard you fired half your staff.
Yes, I did.
That worries me.
I let them go to make room for you.
I'm just not sure we're the right match.
To be honest, I'm a little uncomfortable working with someone who's commissioning famous photographers when I can't even buy my volunteers bus fair to the office.
Do you know who Nicky Hemler is? No.
Nicky owns one of the biggest galleries in Chelsea.
She desperately wanted to represent Adam Galloway.
I delivered on Adam, and in return she contributes almost 40 grand a year to CWI.
That money goes to impact studies, lobbying efforts, research.
World well could benefit from that sort of money, Gillian, and we can benefit from your expertise.
Can I think about it? Of course.
We don't have to jump into anything.
I grew up here, in the up country-- Bibles, barbecues, and broken backs.
Everything gets just a little bit thicker this far south-- The air, the blood, even me.
I try to make it down here at least once a month.
Every trip is a reminder of how far I've come.
I hated Gaffney as a kid, when I had nothing, but now I've come to appreciate it.
It's not as suffocating as it once was, except when I have to deal with the sort of nonsense that makes me want to hang myself.
Turn left on route one-- Don't listen to her.
I know a better way.
Yes, sir.
We don't have the money, Frank.
The legal bills alone will kill us.
How about a settlement? I'll look at the numbers.
What's it look like to you? Like a peach.
No, I mean what does it really look like? As mayor, I stick with a peach.
As a private citizen, well, it looks like the sun is shining where it shouldn't be.
There's a better way to handle this.
Really, Frank? And what's that? I'm not trying to start an argument here.
You make it sound like I'm in the wrong.
No, you know exactly what you're doing, Orrin.
You're using this poor girl's death for your own political advantage.
You're the one that fought me when the peach farmers bitched and moaned about me tearing it down.
You're the one that took their money.
- It's a water tower.
- It's ungodly.
- Orrin.
- This is cut and dry, Frank.
I fought to tear it down.
You fought to keep it up.
That girl's blood is on your hands, and I'm taking you to task for it.
All right, I'll tell you what.
Dick Peters is going to retire this term.
That means there's an open race in the fourth district.
How about I help you lock up that seat? I'm not looking to make a deal, Frank.
It's not a deal.
It's an opportunity.
I'll be just fine.
You may despise me, Orrin, but the classy thing to do would've been to invite us up for some of that iced tea.
What are you doing? You shouldn't run here.
It's disgraceful.
Have you no respect? The criteria is a starting point.
They're suggested, not mandated.
We assemble a council of experts who will determine exactly-- Nowhere here does it say who these experts are, how they'll be chosen.
The president selects the council.
What sort of oversight? We'd like input on the selection.
Doug, check with Linda.
Calling her now.
Okay, so now can we talk about charter schools? Charter schools are a no-go.
They have to be in there.
You keep them in, we walk.
The same goes for us.
Let's not jump to ultimatums.
Well, let's figure out a way to reduce non-public spending.
All right, give me a few minutes to think about that.
We can't move forward without addressing this point.
- I understand, but this is the cornerstone of the bill.
- Let's talk it out.
Give me five minutes, Marty.
I'll call you right back.
No-- no-- If we consider settlement as an option, we need to be able to pay for it.
But if we offer a settlement, - aren't we saying-- - That's my point.
We're admitting that the town's responsible for this kid's death.
I say make the peach farmers cough it up.
Oh, man, talk about a shit storm.
Y'all mind catchin' me up? Wayne and Travis want to go to court.
I don't think that's a good idea.
We can't be pouring money into a settlement when we can barely afford to run the city.
What do you think, gene? I think that we gotta worry about the peach farmers association.
If there is a hint that we're blaming the Peachoid, they're going to raise holy hell.
Who gives a crap.
They gotta suck it up.
Let him talk.
I'm just saying that we need to keep them in mind.
She was breaking the law.
End of story.
You can't text while you drive.
Yeah, but all a jury's going to see is a beautiful 17-year-old girl who's now dead.
No offense, Frank, but you just got here.
We've been dealing with this for the last week now.
And where's your solution? What? You think you know better than us? I'm just trying to be realistic.
Frank, I know you want to swoop down and save the day, but there's a principle at stake here.
We allow ourselves to be extorted because of this teenager-- When Orrin gets a jury to weep a river of snot over this dead girl, when Gaffney goes tits up because you can't afford to pay a seven-figure award in damages, when you all get booted out of office and I lose to Chase, then you can chew my ear off about principles, because we'll all have nothing but time on our hands.
Until then, you either contribute, or you keep it shut, Travis.
Now, here's what we're going to do.
Gene, how much can we pull together - for a settlement if we had to? - About 150.
That'll work.
Jamie, get your boys down to the hardware store to build two billboards.
Put them out a mile out on either side of the tower.
Have them read, "drive safely.
No texting behind the wheel.
" - Got it.
- And get those up by tomorrow morning.
I'll issue the permits.
And let's stop lighting the thing at night.
The peach farmers aren't going to like that.
Well, how much does the electric cost? About 50,000 a year.
Jesus, you could put a kid through college on-- Let's use that money to start a scholarship fund in her name.
Meantime, you tell the association, if they want it lit up, they can pay for it.
I'll deliver that message happily.
And do me up a budget and a plan for removing the sphincter.
The what? He means the emergency valve.
That's interesting.
I always thought of it as a clitoris.
But it's on bottom.
I believe the clitoris is above the-- But if you imagine a woman on her belly-- Enough.
I want it done.
And, gene, give me everything you've got on road regulations.
County statutes, not municipal.
And do you remember that power line business we pulled up at the last election? Sure do.
Let's make sure we're rock solid on that.
Does this very expensive dinner at least buy me an evening of mind-blowing sexual congress? It was good, but I don't know if it was that good.
Fellatio good? Hand job maybe.
No promises.
Deal.
Okay, um, Peter, there's something I need to tell you.
I have been thinking lately.
You know, um, it might be good to work somewhere else.
So I did some interviews, and the speaker's office offered me deputy LD.
Peter.
Christina, um-- I just thought it could be good, right, if we're going to have any future, to stop this boss-staffer thing and be a real couple.
We are a real couple.
I mean not have to hide it like we do at the office.
And it's a great opportunity.
The speaker? Would you hate me if I took the job? Baby, I want what you want.
I'm not-- I won't fight you on this, not if this is what you feel you need to do.
- Really? - Yeah.
And you're right.
This is a great opportunity.
When do you have to tell them by? There's no deadline.
I don't have to decide right away.
Okay, well, when you decide, just, you know, help me find a replacement.
You know, give me a heads-up.
Yeah, of course.
I haven't even decided if I'm going to take it.
We don't have to talk this through right now.
I just-- I just thought I'd bring it up.
Should we get out of here? Yes.
Let's go find the parents.
You hang back by the car.
It's a big crowd, sir.
If I get shot or stabbed consoling two grieving parents, I'm a hero from now until the end of time.
Let's roll the dice.
Shall we? Sir, I can't allow you to go unescorted into all those people.
Allow me? Let's get one thing straight, Meacham.
You are never to dictate what I can and cannot do.
The only two words I want to hear from you when I ask you to do something are "yes" and "sir.
" Is that understood? Yes, sir.
Good.
Then we're gonna get along just fine.
Mr.
and Mrs.
masters, I'm Frank Underwood, your congressman.
I'm so sorry for your loss.
I cannot begin to fathom-- You're right.
You can't.
You have no idea.
Forgive me.
I don't mean to intrude.
I just-- - Well, you are intruding.
- Dean, please.
What? It's his fault.
Isn't it? Anyway, I just wanted to express my condolences, and say if there's anything the two of you nee-- Dean, you don't want to be talking to him.
We got legal action pending.
Look, I know what Mr.
Chase has been saying, and believe-- Nobody invited you.
Nobody wants your condolences or your excuses.
Frank, please.
You shouldn't have to put up with this right now.
I'm sorry.
Well, that went well.
Hang on a second.
Reverend.
Congressman.
Nice to see you again.
I wish it was under better circumstances.
Terrible, isn't it? It's just terrible.
This is so thoughtful what you've organized here.
Least we can do.
Tell me, are the masters in your congregation? They are.
They come every Sunday.
Do you think they'll be at the service tomorrow? I'd be surprised if they weren't.
I'm wondering.
Can you do me a favor? Anything for you, Frank.
Oh, the blue toothbrush is yours, right? Uh, yeah, the blue one.
- Hey, Peter? - Yeah? Where do you keep the light bulbs? The lamp in the bedroom is out.
In the kitchen, under the sink.
Here's what I think.
I wish I could be bigger than this, but I can't, and I'm being selfish, and I realize it's mostly about me, but fuck it.
I have to say it.
Please don't take that other job, Christina.
Anyway, that's how I feel.
I'm glad you told me.
Charters jeopardize our ability to organize, which is reason enough, but the bigger issue is that measuring their success-- Charters schools have operated under the same evaluative standards that every-- Apples and oranges.
No matter how you look at it, you can't use the same standards to compare.
What, you're advocating a more demanding criteria for charter schools - than other schools-- - Our point is simple, Frank.
Several funds should only go - to public union school districts - Hold on a second.
Yeah, but we've already increased non-charter funding by 10%.
The amount going to charter schools is negligible.
It's the precedent, Frank, not the number.
We're setting a lot of precedents, Marty.
That's the nature of reform.
Well, some of them we can stomach.
Some of them we can't.
All right, let's not get bogged down in abstractions.
Let's deal with specifics.
Corey, can you walk us through it? There's a three-prong approach to determining the amount of funding Miss me? Maybe.
A little.
What's it been, 15 hours? Not even long enough to notice you're gone.
Tell that to Marty Spinella.
How's it coming? It's coming.
Slowly, painfully.
Hey, have we always had tulips in the front yard, or am I slowly going insane? I planted them last fall.
You did not.
When I was down with you for the campaign.
You've never gardened a day in your life.
Not true.
I have gardened exactly one day in my life.
You were down in Spartanburg doing some sort of fundraiser.
Gene's wife came over with a bucket of bulbs, and next thing you knew, I was down on my knees in the dirt, earthworms and all.
I can't even picture it.
Neither can I, and I was there.
What else? Distract me from giant peaches and dead teenagers.
What else? Oh, I went for a run today, and the strangest I-- I don't know.
This woman That's interesting.
What is? Oh, a text just came.
Zoe Barnes.
Who? Oh, that reporter from the herald you met one night.
Oh, her.
I remember.
Yeah, go if you need to call her back.
No, she can wait.
I'm talking to my wife.
That's okay.
I'm going to bed soon anyway.
See you tomorrow? I hope so.
Wish me luck.
Mm, bonsoir, my petite Peachoid.
Disgusting.
- Good night.
- Good night.
Yeah, all right, that's fine, Corey.
Marty? Frank, let me explain it to you.
Here's our problem.
Frank? Frank, did we lose you? Uh, yeah, I'm here, Marty.
Look, we can talk ourselves in circles about charter schools, but here's what I propose.
In your profile, you go into great detail about the sexism Durant faced early on in her career.
That's right.
When she was first elected, it was still an old boy's club in the senate.
Journalism used to be that way, too, not so long ago.
I feel really lucky.
I've had lots of trailblazers come before me.
For instance, my colleague Janine Skorsky was the first woman at the herald to become chief political correspondent, and that was only five years ago.
Has it been those trailblazers who've allowed you to rise so quickly? You've moved up from the Metro pages to the front page Sunday edition.
Uh, well, I don't know that that would be possible if Janine hadn't already paved the way.
So does that mean that the herald is not particularly progressive? I think that they are.
Tom is very open minded.
He's the reason Janine got promoted.
That's Tom Hammerschmidt, the executive editor.
Yes, we actually call him the hammer.
The hammer? Why? Because he's tough.
How tough? He's, uh-- Tom has very high standards.
I love him.
He's a-- he's a great mentor.
Um, it can be frustrating at times.
Um, he makes you double and triple-check things, and you want to get the news out the moment you have it, and he makes you rewrite until it's perfect, but that's what makes the herald the herald.
Is that a workable model in the Internet age? Our readers think it is.
Well, you have a declining readership.
But I don't lay that at Tom's feet.
I think that that's the times we live in, right? Should newspapers adapt to the times we live in? It's not that the herald refuses to adapt.
We have an online presence.
Is that maybe not adapting fast enough? I wouldn't argue with that statement.
We could do more.
We've got a special guest with us today.
He asked for the opportunity to share a few words with us this morning-- Our very own congressman, Frank Underwood.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.
Thank you, reverend, and thanks to that choir for that beautiful hymn.
I want to read, this morning, from No.
You know what no one wants to talk about.
Hate.
I know all about hate.
It starts in your gut, deep down here, where it stirs and churns.
And then it rises.
Hate rises fast and volcanic.
It erupts hot on the breath.
Your eyes go wide with fire.
You clench your teeth so hard you think they'll shatter.
I hate you, God.
I hate you! Oh, don't tell me you haven't said those words before.
I know you have.
We all have, if you've ever felt so crushing a loss.
There are two parents with us today who know that pain, the most terrible hurt of all-- Losing a child before her time.
If Dean and leanne were to stand up right now and scream those awful words of hate, could we blame them? I couldn't.
At least their hatred I can understand.
I can grasp it, but God's wantonness, his cruelty, I can't even begin to-- My father dropped dead of a heart attack at the age of 43-- and when he died, I looked up to God and I said those words, because my father was so young, so full of life, so full of dreams.
Why would God take him from us? Truth be told, I never really knew him or what his dreams were.
He was quiet, timid, almost invisible.
My mother didn't think much of him.
My mother's mother hated him.
The man never scratched the surface of life.
Maybe it's best he died so young.
He wasn't doing much but taking up space.
But that doesn't make for a very powerful eulogy, now, does it? I wept.
I screamed, "why, God? How can I not hate you when you steal from me the person I most love and admire in this world? I don't understand it, and I hate you for it.
" The Bible says in proverbs, "Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding.
" Lean not on your own understanding.
God is telling us to trust him, to love him despite our own ignorance.
After all, what is faith if it doesn't endure when we are tested the most? We will never understand why God took Jessica or my father or anyone.
And while God may not give us any answers, he has given us the capacity for love.
Our job is to love him without questioning his plan.
So I pray to you, dear Lord, I pray to you to help strengthen our love for your and to embrace Dean and leanne with the warmth of your love in return.
And I pray that you will help us fend off hatred so that we may all truly trust in you with all our hearts and lean not on our own understanding.
Amen.
Amen.
Your job is to report the news, not be the news.
I was promoting the paper.
You were promoting Zoe Barnes.
Is this about how I said we called you the hammer? - Because if that upset you, I apologize.
- You're missing the point.
I don't want you talking about anything that happens here, not nicknames, not how progressive we are, not whether we are adapting to the Internet.
Any thoughts you have about this paper, you keep them to yourself, or you bring them to me.
You don't get on national television and sp-- I'm sorry.
I wasn't trying to-- Don't interrupt when I'm talking.
You can speak to me like an adult, Tom.
You don't have to lecture me like a little girl.
You haven't earned the right to be treated as an adult.
You think a few front-page stories and some face time on TV makes you the next Judy Miller? You've got a long way to go.
Don't be so arrogant.
Okay, so you think when a woman asks to be treated with respect, that's arrogance? Are you accusing me of sexism? Just making an observation.
No TV for a month.
- What? - You heard me.
No interviews.
That's completely unfair.
You want to make it no TV indefinitely? We're done.
You can go now.
Hello? Gillian, it's Claire Underwood.
Can I come up? Have you seen a doctor? Giardia's not so bad.
It'll pass in another week or so.
You don't have health insurance, do you? Nope.
I'll make an appointment for you to see my personal GP tomorrow.
Medicine doesn't really do much.
You have to let it run its course.
Well, we'll let it run its course under proper supervision.
I won't take no for an answer on this.
- Claire-- - I'll drag you to the hospital myself if I have to.
You're going to the doctor.
No argument.
Thanks.
They're about to walk.
They won't listen to a word I say.
- Both unions? - Yeah.
Put Marty on the phone.
Hang on.
Marty.
Yeah.
It's Frank? This isn't working, Frank.
Marty, you have got to keep them in that room.
They lost their patience.
They're upset you're not in the room, Frank.
- I'll be back this afternoon.
- No, it's too late.
Look, tell them I'll come down on subsidies for charter schools.
Even so, they're angry about the performance standards.
We're not even halfway through this thing.
There's so much in it that they-- Tell them that I'll roll over on performance standards, five-year intervals.
It should be you telling them that, Frank, you here, at this table.
I know that.
I'm doing the best I can, but I can't be in two places at once.
Now, look.
I promise you, if you keep them in that room, we will get through this hump as soon as I get back.
Marty, you are their lobbyist.
You know what's best for them.
Save them from themselves.
Okay, I'll see what I can do.
Stamper.
Do not let Spinella out of your sight and lock the goddamn doors if you have to.
You got it.
Here we go.
I know you're a busy man.
I hope we're not keeping you.
No, no, no, I've got all the time in the world.
This is ham and these are turkey.
And there's some potato salad.
Shall we have a prayer? Gracious loving God Have you had this before? This is the third time.
I'm used to it by now.
Well, I'm not used to it, but it beats malaria.
You've had malaria.
In Zimbabwe.
That took me out for a month.
You make a lot of sacrifices.
I don't see it as a sacrifice.
You turned down a six-figure salary at Google to start your own non-profit.
People don't get malaria in Palo Alto.
You do your research.
When it's someone I care about.
Claire, I turned down that job because I would've hated myself.
It was a lot of money, but for what? So they could fulfill their diversity quota with an Asian girl peddling a Stanford degree? Not just any Asian girl.
A valedictorian.
Let me offer you what Google couldn't.
I know what it is to be capable and beautiful and ambitious and be on people like Sergey and Larry's checklist of things that look good to have on a shelf.
I'm not trying to acquisition you.
What I see in you is a woman I admire, which doesn't happen often.
I want to enable you.
I want to clear the way for you so that you can achieve what you want to achieve, on your own terms.
Thanks for the tea.
And I will send a car to pick you up for the doctor tomorrow.
When you're back on your feet, do you think maybe we can work something out? Yes, I think we could.
That's her at junior prom.
Beautiful.
Here she is in her letter jacket.
She made varsity as a freshman.
I remember the day she found out.
Coach called.
Jessie starts jumping up and down.
"Mom, guess what?" I'm sorry.
Don't be.
It's fine.
Why are we doing this? Honestly, what's to be gained in dredging up all this stuff? Remembering the good things helps sometimes-- Not when it puts my wife in tears.
I appreciate what you said at the church, but it doesn't do us any good.
Neither does this.
Well, what can I do to help? You can't do anything.
She's gone.
You're right.
I can't change that, but I can make sure the city offers you a sizable settlement.
You mean buy us off? No, I mean help you avoiding years of court battles.
Jessica was going to go to Furman.
Is that right? On a volleyball scholarship? Yes, a full ride.
Well, I spoke to the president of the university this morning, and we'd like to create a new scholarship in your daughter's name.
If you'd like that.
It's entirely up to you.
But, most importantly, we have to make sure that this never happens again.
We've got safety billboards going up, we're going to stop lighting the tower at night, and we're putting the guard rails in.
Should've done all that before she ran off the road.
Would you like me to resign, Mr.
masters? Just say the word, and it's done.
If it will bring you any satisfaction.
I asked the reverend once, "What are we supposed to do in the face of so much senseless pain?" And he said to me, "what else can we do but take what seems meaningless and try to make something meaningful from it.
" He's right.
That's how God works-- Through us.
Will you let me work for you? What you have to understand about my people is that they are a noble people.
Humility is their form of pride.
It is their strength, it is their weakness, and if you can humble yourself before them, they will do anything you ask.
Tell us more about the scholarship.
- Hey.
- Hey.
What are you doing? - Working.
- On what? The, uh, BRAC commission stuff.
I'm behind on it.
It's Sunday.
So? You don't usually work on the weekend.
Well, now I do.
There's, uh, coffee in the kitchen.
You want some? Peter Peter.
If I decide to stay, it's because it's what I want, not what you want.
I understand.
Which draft are you reading of the written testimony? The one you sent on Thursday.
I actually changed it on Friday.
Can I show you? Yeah, I was thinking that we could start with job numbers and then go to economic multipliers instead of the other way around.
What do you think? Let's see what it looks like.
Picture this-- A 17-year-old girl traveling at 60 miles an hour spins out of control in no traffic.
She hits a guard rail.
But if she's wearing her seatbelt, which she was, and her car doesn't roll over three times down a 20-foot ditch, which it did, then that young woman is still alive.
But you know what? The county administrator didn't build those guard rails, so now she's dead.
We looked up the statute.
Guard rails are under county supervision.
Are you trying to turn this around on me? That's not all, Orrin.
Your easement.
You see, every couple of years the piedmont electric, they apply to bring power lines through Gaffney.
The route comes right through your lot.
Now, gene and I always fight them off, but this year, if they were to reapply, hmm Eminent domain.
It would be such a shame to have to tear down this beautiful home.
Fuck you, Frank.
You can't just roll up on my property and act like you own it.
Oh, but I can.
We just did.
I've won this district Do you think that's just luck and a firm handshake? But I'll tell you what.
I'm not a vindictive person.
I don't like for anybody to lose if everybody can win, so I'm going to help you get elected in the fourth.
You get to keep your house.
I keep the fifth.
We put the Peachoid behind us, and everybody's happy.
What do you say? Well, that's all right.
You think about it.
I'm sure you'll do the right thing.
Oh, and I'm looking forward to having you in congress, Orrin.
It's always good to have friends on the other side of the aisle.
I've been offered a spot on Nightline.
You want my advice? I don't want it.
I need it.
Close your eyes.
Okay.
It's 11:25.
Nightline is about to come on.
Millions of people are watching.
Where are you, home? No.
At the studio? Yes.
And what do you see? I see lights.
I see a camera.
And that little red dot goes on.
Tell me what you hear? I hear my voice.
And those millions of people, what do they hear? My voice.
And what do they see? My face.
So you don't need my advice.
Hammerschmidt's going to freak.
You don't want to work anywhere you're not willing to get fired from, Zoe.
Treading water's the same as drowning for people like you and me.
Good luck.
I'll be watching.
- Hey, wait.
- Yes? When do you get back? When I get back, you'll know.
Hello, Nancy.
Welcome back, sir.
Linda Vasquez called for you.
Tell her I'll call her in a couple hours with an update.
- Very well.
- Sir? Unless you need anything, Kyle has you covered.
No, go home.
You did well this weekend.
Thank you, sir.
Oh, and before you go home, can you do me a favor? Would you swing by my house and make sure these get to Claire? Yes, sir.
And thank you, sir, for being so patient.
Okay.

It's there for leverage so that we can lock down performance standards.
You don't toss around their right to collective bargaining like a poker chip.
If we don't, they won't budge.
Has Marty Spinella seen this? Not the version I showed him.
So you lied to his face.
No.
I revised the parameters of my promise.
Which is lying.
Which is politics the sort you're well versed in, Bob.
Here's some politics for you.
I allow this to go to the floor, I get murdered next election.
This is coming from the President.
Last time I checked, I was still a Democrat, Frank, and you were too.
Are you telling me the President isn't? Because he's acting a hell of a lot like a Republican.
I thought Bob was on our team.
Just sit him down with the President ten minutes.
We won't touch collective bargaining.
Are you interested in my advice on this, or do you just want me to deliver the message? I'm always interested in your advice, Frank.
Birch is right.
You're going to burn a lot of bridges.
The President should at least sit down with him and let him make his case.
You tell Bob I'm happy to schedule a meeting with the President once he's set a date to put this bill on the floor.
The President can fuck himself.
This is the platform.
It's what he ran on.
I don't give a shit what he ran on.
He can't steamroll the house.
And don't forget, you work for me, Frank, not him.
If he wants something on the floor, he's gonna have to talk to me directly.
I know you take a lot of pride in your manhood, Bob, and it's impressive, but as big as it is, Linda can still shut the door on it.
Tell Vasquez the bill is dead.
That's not the first time he's pulled that stunt on me.
Probably should have held my tongue, but I just couldn't resist the chance to see him shrivel.
Good morning.
Frank.
Mr.
President.
Linda.
Let's strike the anti-collective bargaining provision from the bill.
Linda and I have talked it over, and I think she's right on this.
Tell Bob he can come by tomorrow afternoon.
Sir, respectfully, I do not think you should give him the satisfaction.
Well, give me a reason.
Makes us appear weak.
There's an opportunity for you to establish your supremacy.
We should seize it.
But without Birch's cooperation, we're fighting an uphill battle before we even get the bill to the floor.
Frank, we discussed this.
Sir, if you give in now, Birch will walk all over you for the next four years.
I can get this bill on the house floor as is.
I promise you.
All right, Frank.
Show me what you can do.
Thank you, Mr.
President.
That was her trying to take credit for my idea.
Advice she wouldn't take from me unacceptable.
I will not allow her to sell my goods when she cuts me out of the profits.
I specifically told her no interviews.
She disobeyed me not just once.
At least eight times in the past month.
She stays, Tom.
She has no respect for my authority, Margaret.
I said she stays.
There are rules.
There's a way of doing things.
If I have a reporter two freshmen girls are moving into their dorm room together.
One of them's from Georgia, one of them's from Connecticut.
The girl from Connecticut's helping her mother put up curtains.
The girl from Georgia turns to them and says, "hi.
Where y'all from?" The girl from Connecticut says, "we're from a place where we know not to end a sentence with a preposition.
" The girl from Georgia says, "oh, beg my pardon.
Where y'all from Cunt?" You heard that one before? A version of it.
With softer language.
Tom, we don't need people who follow the rules.
We need people with personality.
We want Zoe's face, her energy.
We want to get her on TV as much as possible.
It helps us cut through the noise.
See what I'm saying? I hear you, Margaret.
Thank you, Tom.
Thank you.
Come in.
Oh.
I, uh, thought I wanted to say hi to Evelyn.
Evelyn? This was her office.
I don't think she works here anymore.
- Oh.
- Gillian Cole.
I came on board a couple of weeks ago.
Gillian.
World well.
Yeah.
I've heard great things.
Remy Danton.
You work with Claire? In a way.
Hello, Remy.
Claire.
I see you've met Gillian.
Yes, just now.
She's doing fantastic work for us, as you can see.
Red is completed wells, green, uh, potential sites, yellow approved sites, and blue are the filtration centers.
Nice.
So you liking it here? Yeah.
My staff and I are loving it.
Claire's opened a lot of doors for us.
Sounds like Claire.
Shall we head to my office? Gillian, nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
What happened? Things got complicated.
San corp was in a difficult situation.
I would have thought you'd step up when things were difficult, not hold the donation hostage.
Well, things are less complicated now.
The donation is back on the table.
I had to fire half my staff.
Now you can hire them back.
San corp is prepared to double its initial commitment - Why? - Public relations.
Same as before.
And what do they want from Francis? Things are square with Frank.
We're only talking about the C.
W.
I.
But why double it? Because I said they should.
The more they give, the more you can do.
The more you can do, the better they look.
And that's why they hired Glendon Hill to make them look good.
And they also hired you to get traction in congress.
Not in this case.
We want a long-term partnership, Claire.
This is an investment in the future.
We're not attaching strings.
I'll think about it.
They'd really love to move quickly on this.
I said I'll think about it.
Madeleine, you have to email me this shit.
I need it in writing.
And with more than an hour's notice.
Yeah, I know that, but you have to understand we we have a plan.
We have a way that we do this, and when you okay.
Fine.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Bye.
Madeleine has decided to have a spur-of-the-moment trip to Orlando with her latest eharmony catch.
No heads-up, no warning.
The kids? They get out of school at 2:30.
I can do the shipbuilders meeting.
You sure? Yeah, it's just a public affairs team.
I'll brief you, and then you can call them tomorrow.
Go get your kids.
Hey.
Remy came by this morning.
To the office.
What does he want? The donation's back on the table.
They've doubled it to 1.
5 million.
- You said no, right? - I didn't.
He doesn't want anything from you, Francis.
Come on, Claire.
You know better than that.
I specifically asked.
Maybe not right now, but look, I invented this guy, all right? It's a slippery slope.
You open the Think of what I can do with this money.
I can hire back the people I let go.
I can help accelerate the funding for the projects that Gillian has brought in.
Let's find another way to raise the money.
But it's right there at my feet.
Claire, I have too much on my plate right now.
I can't have San corp breathing down my neck again.
I can't have Remy look, it is Remy.
He knows me too well.
It's dangerous.
Look at the bigger picture here.
I'm asking.
No.
You're not.
Claire.
I'll tell you what I told him.
Which was? I'll think about it.
I know there's been some tension, and I'm probably more to blame than you are.
But I'd like to put that behind us.
Zoe, you're going to be our new White House correspondent.
What about Janine? I promoted her to Midwest Bureau chief.
She's okay with that? She wants to give up the White House? It's the decision I've made.
It's just that Janine has so much experience.
I thought you'd be more excited about this.
I'm sorry.
I I just thought you brought me in here to I don't know.
To fire you.
Maybe.
Water under the bridge.
We're starting over.
So are you ready to take this on? Can I think about it? People usually don't have to think about it when they're offered the White House, Zoe.
Just a day or two.
Janine is booked for a flight to Chicago on Friday.
I'll let you know before then.
I just need to thank you.
Thank you, Tom.
David Rasmussen is the majority leader, which means he's one step above me and one below Birch, which is akin to being between a very hungry wolf and a very quarrelsome sheep.
Let's see if he stays with the herd or joins the pack.
David.
You mind if I join you? Please.
A salad, huh? Yes.
I'm trying to take better care of myself.
Good man.
Diet? Diet, exercise, everything.
You ought to take better care of yourself too.
Well, they should stop serving such good pizza.
Oh, I'm not talking about the food.
I'm talking about Birch.
You are never going to be speaker unless you do something about it.
I'm very satisfied where I am.
- Oh, come on.
- For the time being, yeah.
Time being never.
The only way you become speaker is if Birch loses his district or retires, neither of which is going to happen before you and I have dentures.
I'm not happy where this conversation is going, Frank.
If you want it, and I know you do, there's a way.
Okay.
Right.
I can't all you need is a simple majority 218 votes.
We're going to get at least 205 out of the G.
O.
P.
, and after that, all you need is 13 Democrats.
You and I make two.
Are you out of your mind? Just consider it for a moment.
You want to collude with the Republicans? I don't want to, but I would if you become speaker in the process.
Never been done before.
There's a first time for everything.
This is ridiculous.
The Republicans would love a chance to knock Bob down a peg or two.
And you want to help them.
I want to help us.
Bob will not play ball with the White House.
Now, you're a reasonable man, David, and he's not.
You know what I am? I'm a discreet man.
You're lucky for that.
I'm not going to mention this to Bob, but if you ever bring it up again, I won't have a choice.
Looks like he opted for the herd.
Claire.
I'd like to put an order for the water filters and the well-digging equipment for the South Sudan project.
Can we talk about the budget? - How much? - 200,000.
For one project? I know it's a lot, but it'll be our flagship project in Africa, and we would be the first organization there to work on this scale.
I'd like to go over the specifics first.
I have the budget right here.
Let me just grab my messages, and then I'll come in to you.
Okay.
I'll be in my office.
Any calls while I was out? They're on the desk, and this came by messenger.
Adam.
It's Claire.
Yes.
I know.
It has.
No reason.
I was just thinking about you.
You're right.
It is a lie.
I do have a reason.
I need to use you.
The White House is where news goes to die.
Everything's canned.
These perfectly prepared statements it's a prestigious job, Zoe.
Used to be, when I was in ninth grade.
Now it's a graveyard.
The only halfway interesting thing they do is throw a big dinner party once a year where they pat themselves on the back and rub shoulders with movie stars.
Who needs that? Every day since you started here, you've begged me to move you up, and now my goal in life is not to climb up the herald's ladder one rung at a time until I've got my own stationery.
Some of us value a career at a paper like this.
I'm sorry.
I didn't mean for that to come off well, it did, and you skipped a few rungs, by the way.
Do what you want to do, Zoe, but if you want me to be your cheerleader and say, "yeah, turn it down," I won't.
I would have killed for that job when I first started here.
Put Fichtner in the "leaning yes" column.
Don't you think he's a neutral? He hates Birch.
Yeah, but he owes Birch for the ways and means appointment.
Put him in "neutral.
" Who else? Ramirez is a neutral? Oh, this list is so shaky.
Any one of them leaks it to Bob no, what we need is one name, one person who can deliver 12.
The black caucus.
Womack.
What can we offer him? What does he need? Let me pull up his file.
Here we go.
McCudden air force base employs 3,000 people in his district.
It's on the D.
O.
D.
's chopping block this year.
Who do we know on the Brack commission? That's dangerous.
The trail leads back to us trying to influence the D.
O.
D.
or the Brack.
No, no, no.
What we do is we close another base.
We leave enough money in the D.
O.
D.
's budget to keep Womack's base off the list.
What we need Is someone we own.
Dad, I'm hungry.
Coming, buddy.
Here we go.
With cheese.
Without cheese.
Um, dad? Yeah.
That looks pretty disgusting.
Yeah, it looks disgusting.
It's not how it looks, it's how it tastes.
And a fork would be nice.
Shit.
Okay.
Hold on.
Hello.
Good evening, Mr.
Russo.
There's a Mr.
Underwood here to see you.
Uh Okay.
Send him up.
Hi, there.
- Hi.
- Hi.
This is Kevin, this is Sara.
Hi.
I'm Frank.
Nice to meet you both.
- Do you work with dad? - I do.
Congressman Underwood is daddy's boss.
I thought you didn't have a boss.
Everybody has a boss, sweetheart, even congressmen.
Why don't you take your dinner and go into the bedroom? - But I wanted to watch TV.
- Go now.
Cute kids.
Yeah, I like them.
Can I get you a drink? No, I won't be here long.
Yeah.
Have a seat.
Oh, thanks.
Is that a ps vita? Uh Which games does he have? All of them.
I have a console at home.
I play sometimes to relax.
I ought to get one of these for the car.
So, Peter, we need to close the shipyard in your district.
The Brack hearing is tomorrow.
You won't put up your usual fight.
You have zero testimony to add.
I can't do that.
Yes, you can, Peter.
I spent months on that testimony.
I lobbied the commission.
My entire office I'm sure you've done splendid work, but unfortunately it can't come to fruition.
- Why? - Politics.
There's forces bigger than either of us at play here.
It's 12,000 jobs.
I know.
It's a shame.
Keeping that shipyard open is what got me elected.
Those people are my friends.
I'm not here to debate this, Peter.
The base will close.
The only question is, will you make it a swift death or a painful one? No way.
I won't sit on my hands.
I sympathize that this is gonna be difficult for you.
And I don't know how yet, but I will make it up to you, Peter.
I'm a powerful friend to have right now, perhaps your only friend, so don't defy me.
Love of family.
Most politicians are permanently chained to that slogan family values.
But when you cozy up to hookers and I find out, I will make that hypocrisy hurt.
Did you get the present I sent you? You wouldn't really call it a present.
Well, more of a gentle reminder, maybe.
Mm, more heavy-handed than gentle, which surprised me.
It's not really your style, Francis.
But, yes.
I got it.
I like that one.
I do too.
But the first one's better.
You think? Something special tomorrow? Adam Galloway's coming down from New York.
What for? Because I need some of his photographs for the silent auction at the gala next month.
You speak to Remy yet? I haven't.
If you want to look inviting, wear the black one.
Hello.
Oh.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Adam? How is it the world keeps spinning and you manage to stay ahead of it? David's on board with this? It was his idea.
Then why isn't he here? Well, we have to be careful until it's a done deal.
I don't know, Frank.
Think about it, Terry.
You could become the first African-American majority leader in the United States congress.
Let's make some history.
You don't care about history.
You just wanted me because I can round up the votes.
I need the votes, and I do care about history, but most importantly, Terry, you know how to lead.
You're the head of the black caucus for a reason.
So David becomes speaker, I become majority leader and I stay on as whip.
Why don't you want majority leader for yourself? I'm satisfied where I am.
Maybe one day, when you become speaker, you'll bump me up.
This is the sort of thing that there's no turning back.
I can throw a cherry on top.
McCudden stays open.
How? You don't want to know how.
You just want the headline when you keep 3,000 jobs in your district.
- 12 votes? - 12 votes.
I can get you 10, probably 11.
It's so refreshing to work with someone who will throw a saddle on a gift horse rather than look it in the mouth.
That's nice.
Wow.
I found her in a village outside Amravati.
Her name was Tiala.
She died three weeks after I took that picture.
Oh, that's awful.
You can have them all if you like.
I love your hair short.
Do you have plans tonight? No.
Is Frank expecting you home? I'm sure he'll be home late.
Get dinner with me.
What time is your train? I don't book round-trip tickets.
It's going to be a while before I can leave.
What time will you be done? Probably around 8:00.
I'll pick a place, let you know.
Ah.
David.
How are you, Joe? I'm behind you.
Let's do this.
Do what? Keep your cards close.
I like that.
Hi.
Yeah.
This is room 1214.
I'd like a bottle of the Weinbach, please.
Yeah.
Actually, could you make that two bottles? Thank you.
Sit down.
You're making me nervous.
- You still smoke? - From time to time, yes.
I quit.
These are an illusion.
You want? Sure.
What? Not now.
Okay.
I should go.
- I just it seemed - I know.
We can't start this again.
When I end something, I end it.
So why'd you have me come all the way down from New York? It was a mistake.
I'm sorry, Adam.
I should've kept it business.
Side of you I like the least.
There are no mistakes, Claire.
- Hi.
- Hello.
- More wine? - Mm-hmm.
How was your day? - Good.
- Adam well? He is.
We just had dinner.
Hmm.
I e-mailed Remy on the way home.
I told him I'm not taking the money.
Thank you.
I appreciate that this was not easy.
Well, we don't like easy, do we? Oh, the evidence would suggest it.
Is it all right if the Holburns come over for dinner Wednesday night? I want Felicity to buy some tables for the gala.
Yeah, of course.
I'm going to need congressmen and senators there.
- You need to call in favors.
- Done.
Not a few, a lot.
I'll start making calls in the morning.
Adam donated ten photographs.
That was generous of him.
He's staying at the mandarin.
And you? Here.
But the proving grounds' importance stems far beyond it's strategic geographic value.
A.
P.
G.
's research and development of military materiel is central to our nation's counter-terrorism efforts.
The base houses research laboratories for preventative medicine as well as a wide variety of training grounds for military personnel.
A.
P.
G.
is also a job creator.
It provides 400 million dollars in payroll annually, and nearly half a billion dollars in contracts.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify before you today.
Any questions for the congresswoman from Maryland? No.
Those in favor of removing the aberdeen proving ground from the list of closures? Aye.
So noted and removed.
Okay, we'll next consider the Philadelphia naval shipyard.
Would the congressman from Pennsylvania's first district like to offer testimony? I have no testimony to offer.
Yeah, but the difference that we're gonna make Uh, Terry, let me call you right back.
Terry Womack? Possibly.
I've had three members of the Black Caucus tell me they're backing my play for the speakership.
- Interesting.
- I have a sense you've been disseminating some misinformation.
No.
I'm afraid it's you who are misinformed, David.
You don't have three members backing you.
You have ten.
I made it very clear I didn't want any part of this.
Yes, you made it crystal clear.
Then why are you telling people? Because they don't know you made it crystal clear.
I have to go to Bob with this.
He'll think you organized a coup, got cold feet, and are making me the scapegoat.
David, if I pick up this phone right now and leak this story, Bob will have no choice but to drop you, even if he believes your version of events.
You wanna take a seat? - Uh, Freddy? - Yeah, Frank? You better make it a half order.
I got a big dinner tonight.
Sure thing.
Slaw? - Always.
- You got it.
Here you go.
- Oh - Ohh! So, what's the latest? Oh, you know, Frank.
Same old shit.
Almost got killed last weekend.
- Here? - No.
State fair down in Virginia.
Me and my brother hauling this smoker down there, and this fucking minivan had a fridge strapped on top.
A fridge strapped on top of a minivan, Frank.
That's stupid.
Well, that fridge slipped loose.
Boom! Right in front of us.
I had to swerve to the left.
Barely missed it.
But now that smoker is fishtailing, almost hit a hatchback in the next lane.
Swerved to the right.
Barely missed that too.
- Jesus.
- Oh, man, it was real.
But, you know, that's why God gave us reflexes.
So we can move the fuck out of the way when a fridge come out of nowhere.
- How them ribs? - You know how they are.
- You know I like to hear it.
- Perfection, Freddy.
Perfection.
- You go on ahead, Frank.
- Thank you, Freddy.
Mm-hmm.
Well, this is a surprise.
- You usually text.
- Where are you? On the other side of the tracks trying to find the meaning of life.
Did you find anything for me? You mean anything newsworthy? Uh, I actually didn't call to badger you.
Yes, you did, but that's part of your charm.
No.
I wanted to tell you that I've been promoted to White House correspondent.
I'll have to travel with the press corps, be at briefings, but I can work around all that.
If you need me.
It won't change anything.
Oh, on the contrary.
This changes everything.
No.
I can be flexible.
I'm not interested in someone who's flexible, I'm interested in someone who's available.
So you think I should turn it down? That's entirely up to you.
Well, I mean, it's not official yet.
- I could - Oh, look, I've got to go, but call me, you know, if you find yourself available again.
You see, Freddy believes that if a fridge falls off a minivan, you better swerve out of its way.
I believe it's the fridge's job to swerve out of mine.
Hey, Janine Keep walking, Zoe.
I really don't want to talk to you right now.
It's not like I asked him for it.
- He just called me into his office, and - Oh, please.
You've been gunning for my job since the day you bounced in here with a lollipop in your mouth.
Congratulations.
I'll send you a bottle of champagne from the Middle West, wherever the fuck that is.
I'm gonna turn it down.
You don't have to leave.
Are you trying to rub this in or something? Please believe me.
You should be in the White House.
I don't want it.
I never did.
I was hoping we could go see Tom together.
- I want him to know that we both - Get the fuck out of my face.
I'm asking.
For real.
I don't want the job.
Then you're an even bigger idiot than I thought you were.
Go.
Before I get violent.
Peter? - Hello? - But the Bering Sea is a violent and unpredictable force.
Hi.
Uh, my name is Christina.
- I work with your dad.
- He's not here.
- Where'd he go? - I don't know.
He said he'd be back in a little while.
Uh, when was that? When he dropped us home from school.
He left his phone here.
Are you dad's girlfriend? No.
No.
I, uh I just I I work for your dad.
Then why do you have the keys to his apartment? Will you make us pop-tarts? An enormous 60-foot rogue wave struck the Aleutian It was just sublime, Claire.
- Thank you.
- I don't think I'll eat for a week.
Does that mean no room for dessert? I'd love to, but, uh, none for me.
Why don't you and I head downstairs for a little Brandy and some cigars? - Cubans? - You don't think I smoke anything legal, do you? - Dessert for you? - No.
No, thanks.
But I will take a refill of this Chardonnay, though.
Of course.
Oh, this is almost out.
I'll grab another.
I hate how they just hit you like that with no warning.
You get night sweats too? I, uh This is very new to me.
Does Frank know? I haven't we haven't no.
I'm sorry.
We don't have to talk about this.
No.
It's fine.
I'm just, uh It's fine.
I feel better now.
- Could I have a little bit more? - Sure.
Just say when.
Charles is driving tonight, so And when.
- Cheers.
- Cheers.
So, you mentioned, when you invited me, the C.
W.
I.
You're having a gala and launching some new Yes, that's right.
We just brought on this brilliant young woman who's going to help us expand our efforts overseas.
- Claire, I will save you the trouble.
- So we'll Charles and I would be delighted to contribute.
Well, that's very generous of you, Felicity.
Well, you were such a darling, getting us tickets to the Jefferson Ball.
- Oh, that was nothing.
- It wasn't nothing.
It was People in this town don't go out of their way to be nice to each other.
Fourteen years Charles and I have been here, and Anyway, um, I'm grateful to have a friend.
How much do you need? Christina, what the fuck are you doing here? Shh.
They're sleeping.
Peter.
- Hey, dad.
- Hey, kiddo.
Would you take your brother downstairs? - I'll be there in a second.
- Okay.
Bye, dad.
- Bye.
- Bye? Where they going? I'm taking them to their grandmother's.
I was able to get a hold of Madeleine, and I told her Oh, fuck.
You didn't tell her? No, I didn't.
But I should have.
I told her that you had to travel for work, which is the last time I ever lie for you.
Look what happened, Peter? I'm I'm sorry about the Brack hearing.
- I was - Fuck the Brack hearing.
What about your kids? After I drop them off, I'm done.
I am no longer your girlfriend.
I no longer work for you.
No hey, Christina I don't want to hear it, Peter.
There's no excuse this time.
- I don't have much time, Frank.
- I'll make it short.
- The President? - No.
The speakership.
David's making a play.
- What? - He came to me for support.
My first thought was to tell you right away, but then my second thought was to ignore my first thought, because we have the votes, Bob.
If there had been a party revolt, I would've known about it.
We don't need the whole party to revolt.
We need 13 other side of the aisle.
Are you out of your mind? People have been asking me that a lot lately.
I'm inclined to start saying yes.
Who are they the 13? David and I are two, Terry Womack, and ten members of the black caucus make another 11.
Is the President behind this? No.
He doesn't have a clue.
This was David's plan executed by me.
But there is an out for you, Bob.
I can sway Womack either way as long as you make him the next majority leader.
And - The education bill.
- Now we're on the same page.
I can't do that.
You know I can't.
You're the speaker, Bob.
You can do anything you'd like.
And I have to say, appointing the first African-American majority leader why, that isn't a bad legacy to have.
I'm sorry.
I changed my mind.
I thought about it, and Thinking about it was what those two days were for.
And then I thought about it some more, and I realized I Jesus Christ, you're fucking unbelievable.
Look, Tom, I appreciate the fact that you took a chance on me, but No, I don't think you do.
I don't think you appreciate anything.
I think you're an ungrateful, self-entitled little c Little what? Little what, Tom? Say it.
Cunt.
You're a cunt.
What are you doing? Don't you dare you don't even know what I'm typing.
- Get out, Zoe.
- Just a second.
I'm almost done.
Get out.
You're fired.
Whatever you have to tell yourself, Tom.
Get out! So should I press "send"? I think I should.
Call me whatever you want, but you should remember, these days, when you're talking to one person, you're talking to a thousand.
Well, you'll say you wanted to spend more time focusing on your home district.
You'll say Womack is the right man to fill your shoes.
You won't make waves.
You won't do interviews.
You'll suck it up and be a team player.
This was Frank's idea.
I told you he was gonna try to blame me on it.
Ask around.
Talk to Womack.
I did.
He said you came to him.
He's fucking lying, Bob! I would never shut up, David.
Do you understand how you're to behave when we make the announcement? And if I don't play along? Then the D-triple-C will pour everything it's got into your primary opponent's campaign next cycle.
We'll cleave you from the herd and watch you die in the wilderness.
Tell us now, David.
If you think it's best, Robert.
And just think, he could have been a wolf.
** You made yourself available.
I quit.
Fuck that place.
It was a prison.
I'm free now.
Congratulations.
Where are you? - In a car.
- So am I.
Where you headed? - Home.
- So am I.
To your home or mine? Is that an invitation? It's whatever you want it to be.
- You sound tipsy.
- I am.
I just spent the last two hours drinking Long Island Iced Teas.
What's your address? Do your parents know you live like this? No.
They haven't visited.
Are you cared for? How do you mean? Do you have a man who cares for you? - An older man.
- No.
But you've been with older men before? Yes.
Then you know they hurt you, and after they hurt you, they discard you.
You can't hurt me.
Take your heels off.
What do you think of Darren Jarvis? - At CBS? - He wants me to be a correspondent.
Not worth your time.
What about Greer Fisher at MSNBC? Stick to writing.
Do TV on the side.
You're more than a talking head.
- How about Slugline? - What's Slugline? If I said Politico wanted to hire me, what would you say? I would say that that peaks my interest.
Six months from now, Slugline will be what Politico was a year and a half ago.
Everyone at Politico reads it, because Slugline's breaking stories before they are.
I wonder why I've never heard of it.
Everyone's a free agent.
They write whatever they want, wherever they are.
Most people write from their phones.
Well, if freedom and exposure are what they're offering, I would say that is a meeting worth taking.
This Hammerschmidt thing is blowing up.
I think he might get fired.
There's gotta be 1,000 tweets here.
People defending me, people trashing me.
There's even a hashtag-- "gozoe.
" Mmm.
Mmm.
Hey! We mustn't leave any trails.
All of my contacts are in there.
Then it's time for you to get some new contacts.
Don't worry.
I'll get you a phone.
I'll get you two, in fact.
One for work and a burner for play.
Expect them this afternoon.
Oh, and go, Zoe.
The reporter? Yes.
Just this once? I'm not sure.
What does she offer us? A mouthpiece when we need one.
She's been very useful so far.
- What does she want? - Access.
A seat at the table.
Sounds like she's getting the better side of the bargain.
She can be controlled.
Are you sure? She can.
I promise you.
Okay.
If you say so.
- The moment you want me to end it-- - I know, Francis.
I should get ready for work.
Hey.
Didn't think you'd be in till later.
This is your agenda for the day.
Here's your schedule for the rest of the week.
These are papers that need to be approved or signed.
Over here are your one-sheets for committee meetings and briefs on upcoming legislative action.
I filled Ashley in.
She can cover until you find a replacement.
Christina What? Thank you for getting all this in order.
Ashley can call me if you have any questions about what's on your desk.
Is he here yet? I put him in your office.
Marty Spinella, head lobbyist for the teachers' union.
He wants to rip my head off and peel it like an orange.
Why? Because I lied to him.
But what choice did I have when the truth would've ended the conversation before it began? - I'll call you back.
- Marty.
You fucking lied, Frank? No, no.
You lied to my fucking face? - Marty, I did not lie.
- Did not-- We spent the whole weekend in that room pouring over this bill line by line, and nowhere did it say anything about collective bargaining.
Let's calm down and sit down, and we will discuss this.
I will explain everything that's going on, and we will talk it out no matter how long it takes.
No, no more.
This is gonna be a very short meeting, 'cause only one of two things are gonna happen: Either you assure me right now that amendment is out, or I'm walking out that door and I'm gonna start launching missiles.
The amendment was never intended to stay in the bill.
It was just there for leverage, that's all.
You threatened to cut federal funding from union school districts? That's not a poker chip, Frank.
That's a goddamn dirty bomb.
Look, the amendment is not staying in the bill.
I just need you to work with me on performance standards.
Performance standards? Are you fucking kidding me? You agreed that they were already out! You can't just put them back in! - Marty, look-- - I have a reputation to uphold! I am the one that made the union reps stay here for you while you were in Gaffney playing with your fucking Peachoid! - Marty-- - You tell me right now! Is that amendment in or out? There is a middle ground here, Marty.
We just have to find it.
I take that as a no.
Okay.
Marty, do not start a war you know you're gonna lose.
You fuck me, I fuck back.
Stamper! Marty and I have a good working relationship.
Or used to.
You can see he has a temper, but I can usually cut through that and reason with him.
But I may have pushed him too far, which is worrisome.
Friends make the worst enemies.
- How'd it go? - What did you hear? - A lot of "fucks.
" - Well, that pretty much says it.
Let's think this through.
We've got the D.
N.
C.
leadership meeting.
- What? - I'd say you could skip it, but Birch just dumped it on us.
- When? - It's here in 12 minutes.
Why here and not the D.
N.
C.
headquarters? The D.
N.
C.
is doing renovations.
They're gonna be green energy efficient.
Oh, that's a charming use of party funds.
We've only been in this space about three months.
It's cool.
Not exactly the Herald, is it? Have you been to those offices? Yes.
Wrist-slitting was in order.
So, who else is courting you? - A few people.
- You mean everyone.
There were a lot of e-mails this morning.
That's not surprising.
You're having a moment.
People are interested.
I'm one of them.
But if eight minutes passes on anything, I get bored.
In eight minutes, I can be bored with you, unless you keep me interested.
I think you can.
And I think this is the place for you to keep the rest of the world interested too.
It's your call.
I won't chase you.
I'm definitely tempted.
Take as long as you want to look around.
E- mail me your figure.
I'll call you back with a counter.
This is our top priority-- Ohio, Florida, and Pennsylvania.
We need all of them, or Walker's a one-term president.
Pennsylvania is why he picked Matthews as a running mate.
But now we have to find a replacement.
The special election is this November.
Patricia Whittaker, D.
N.
C.
chair.
A rare example of someone whose head is in the game instead of up their backside.
Competence is such an exotic bird in these woods that I appreciate it whenever I see it.
This also affects the house.
The new governor will oversee redistricting.
We lose seats here, that means we could lose our majority in Washington.
Well, the R.
N.
C.
is backing Jack Swofford, ex-Mayor of Pittsburgh.
He's got statewide name recognition and campaign machinery in place.
It's been three months, and we don't have dick.
What about the A.
G.
? Ben Pluckett? No.
Ben's got his eyes set on the senate in '14.
Which he'll lose because he botched a sex offender sting last year.
- There's always McHolland.
- He's 78.
When's the last time he held office, when Carter was president? Reagan, but same difference.
He has dignity, he has gravitas.
If you need someone to fill Matthews' shoes-- You can't fill Jim Matthews' shoes, so we shouldn't even try.
- We need a fresh face.
- The state has a weak bench.
Let's go through all the sitting Congressmen one by one and see if anybody sticks out from the crowd.
All right.
I got the list right here.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Pennsylvania's first district, Peter Russo.
Cross him off.
He's no good.
No experience, no chops.
Okay, moving on.
Second district, Gwendolyn Pierce.
Nah, Gwen's too controversial.
Very vocal on abortion.
- And Caroline? - She's good.
- And the boys? - All fucking four of 'em? You feed 'em.
You got any pictures on your phone? Come on.
Let's cut the shit, Pete, will ya? What are we gonna do about the shipyard? BRAC had their hearing.
They slated it for closing.
Yeah, and why didn't you testify? We're talking 12,000 jobs here.
My hands were tied, Paul.
People wanted it closed.
- I was under a lot of pressure.
- From who? People high up the food chain.
- There was nothing I could do.
- That's bullshit! You go back to BRAC.
You talk to the D.
O.
D.
You talk to the Secretary of the Navy.
You do something.
It's not gonna happen.
- Okay.
Why not? - I told you.
It's political.
So I'm supposed to go back to the shipbuilders' association and say what now exactly? That they're out of work because Pete Russo's playing politics? I mean, Jesus, Pete.
We're the ones who got you fucking elected in the first place.
Now you're gonna turn your back on us? You should go.
Seriously? I just got here.
You're kicking me out now? Hey, I'm fucking talking to you! I thought we grew up together.
But this guy sitting behind his big desk I don't even know who the fuck he is.
Where's the Pete Russo who knew how to throw a punch when his back was against the wall? That guy was my friend.
Every teacher in the country a month before school ends? Doesn't need all of them.
The A.
F.
T.
and the N.
E.
A.
can't agree on anything.
You underestimate Marty Spinella.
So which one do we target? We have a better chance with the N.
E.
A.
You think Chuck Sloan will bite? Cooperate-- we'll give your people protection and a place at the banquet.
Fight us, we break you.
He'll bite.
Get him on the phone.
It's after 2:00.
Spinella is potentially mobilizing the largest teachers' strike in United States history.
- Nobody's sleeping.
- I'll call him right now.
I'm sorry.
Are we being too loud? A little.
- What are you working on? - The gala.
There's so much to do.
- Did Nancy send you my list? - She did.
- What'd you think? - It's a good list.
Thanks for inviting them.
Is something wrong? It's still not anywhere near what Remy brought to the table.
Sancorp offered 1.
5 million, Francis.
I'm adding up the numbers, and we're only at half a million.
- I got Chuck on the phone.
- In a minute.
- I can make more calls.
- Enough to raise a million-five? I can at least get us closer.
I'm going to bed.
Don't move any of this around.
Claire, we made the decision to turn Remy down.
No one forced you.
I thought we were okay on this.
You're right.
Good night, Francis.
This is Adam.
Leave a message.
Hi, Adam.
It's me.
I know it's late, but, well, I was really just calling to thank you again for the photographs.
I'm sure they're gonna be a big hit at the auction.
I hope you're well.
I'm sure they're gonna be a big hit at the auction.
I hope you're well.
Right this way, Mr.
Hammerschmidt.
He's here.
Good afternoon, Tom.
Legal? Did you say it, or didn't you? To you and to anyone who asks, yes, I did.
Do we really need them? Not unless I should expect a fight.
You shouldn't.
Give us a few moments.
It's not what you called her, it's that you let her leave the building.
I know how to run a paper, Margaret.
What I don't know how to do is run a paper staffed with people I can't control.
Was she really out of control? To my understanding, she simply turned down a new position.
It's her attitude.
It's the way she turned it down.
Did you think to ask her what she'd rather do instead? - Is it my job to pander to all my employees-- - My employees.
And if they have something to offer that you don't, yes, it is your job.
We've been through this, Tom.
The paper's operating at a loss.
We need people like Zoe.
I'm very aware of how much we're hurting, Margaret.
Staff reductions, dip in circulation.
Each one of those faces and every subscriber we lose, they keep me awake at night.
Now, I won't argue the business side of things.
It's neither my place nor my area of expertise, but know this-- Zoe Barnes, Twitter, blogs, enriched media, they're all surface.
They're fads.
They aren't the foundation this paper was built on, and they aren't what will keep it alive.
We have a core readership that thirsts for hard news.
Those are the people I work And I won't be distracted by what's fashionable.
That's your resignation letter.
Hand it to the lawyers on the way out.
I'll give you some privacy.
No, no, stay.
It'll be quick.
We'll get a drink.
We're going to launch right here in Washington.
We'll see how Congress likes it when the streets are teaming with unsupervised school kids.
Then we'll phase out the rest of the country.
Everybody hold on for one minute.
What's up? The N.
E.
A.
is out.
- Hang on.
- What? They pulled out.
Why? He wouldn't say.
Hold on for one more minute.
Chuck Sloan-- get him on the phone right now.
I've got him right here.
- Is he muted? - Yes.
Hey, Chuck.
It's Marty.
Listen, you can't do this.
If we don't stay united now, we don't have a-- You hired me to represent your interests, right? How can I possibly lobby for the teachers when Congress sees us splintering before we even put up a unite-- All right.
Did Underwood get to you? Whoa, Frank is dishonest and manipulative.
You've seen that he's lied to us already.
Wait-whoa-whoa-whoa, Chuck, Ch-Ch-Chuck? Chuck! Son of a bitch! - Where are you? - I'm at the office.
- False.
- You don't believe me? - Not for a second.
- Where are you? - About to walk into a meeting.
- With who? Someone I have to punish.
- Give me a name.
- No name.
What did this person do wrong? Lie to me.
How will you punish him? What makes you think it's a him? Hold on.
I have to take this.
Where are you? Me? I am not at the office.
You're going to give me a new one of these every week? Well, I-- I can't continue to-- Not without protection.
Nobody tells me when to work and when to play.
I'm not being unreasonable, Zoe.
If you can't trust me, we should be doing this at all.
Well, then, how do we establish our trust? I have been very discreet.
Oh, professional discretion, yes, but this is new territory.
You have a camera on your phone.
Pictures The kind I wouldn't want my father to see.
Well, I'm going to need more than that.
Lie back.
Use your imagination.
I want everything packed for tomorrow.
- We checked already, dad.
- Oh, did you? Those are my pink Nikes on the kitchen counter? And you, Autobot, what is Optimus Prime doing under my bed? He better transform himself into your backpack before you have to leave tomorrow.
Hey, dad? Is Christina coming back? Um, I don't think so, buddy.
No.
Oh, I liked her.
Me, too.
She's cool.
Yeah, she is cool.
And you guys gotta brush your teeth and then check the rooms again, and then it's time for bed.
Got it, pumpkins? Dad, you know I hate it when you call us pumpkins.
Go before I turn you into a pie.
Peter Russo.
He's a drunk.
He is at the moment, a very functional one.
Imagine if he was sober.
Even so, you run him for governor, people are going to dig into his past.
Well, we turn that into an asset, not a liability.
Here's who I was.
Here's who I am now.
You saw how they dismissed him in three seconds at the leadership meeting.
Patty Whittaker is very open-minded, and I am very persuasive.
You think Russo even wants it? Any kid who's made it from the streets of South Philly to the Capitol Rotunda is ambitious.
We just need to tap into that, surround him with the best people and then build the machine and push the go button.
So you think he could win.
I think he can be a contender.
Okay, let's say we pull off a miracle and he wins.
What do we gain by it? Isn't it better to be holding the reins in this race than watching from the stands? You wife is on the phone.
Put her through in here.
I understand that Pennsylvania's important for redistricting-- No, no, no, this isn't just about this race, Doug.
Expand your thinking.
Who else is from Pennsylvania? No, no, no, not in Congress.
The executive branch.
The vice president.
Hello, my dear.
Nancy had my tux dry-cleaned so I won't embarrass-- The Cotesworth cancelled on us.
I'm leaving right now.
I'll come get you.
I've got to go.
What's going on? The hotel, for tonight's gala.
They refused to let Claire into the ballroom because their employees are union.
Spinella.
Yeah, he can go after me all he wants, but to go after my wife? No class.
Meet me at the Cotesworth.
You got it.
Why can't we just move it to another place? I looked into that.
Everything's booked.
You have to reserve these things weeks in advance.
I've got Stamper online looking for another venue somewhere.
Francis, the delivery trucks are already at the Cotesworth.
I can't have people showing up at a different place in case they don't get the email.
This is my fault.
I feel awful.
There's a half a million on the line here.
I realize that.
And I can't keep having my work take these hits on behalf of yours.
It's more than just an inconvenience.
I know.
We'll solve it.
- Hey, I just got your email.
- What did you think? You don't have to send me things before you post.
Oh, I thought you might want to take a look.
The goal here is for everyone to post things faster than I have a chance to read them.
If you're satisfied with the article, just put it up.
- Okay.
- Are you satisfied? I think so.
Okay, you are or you aren't.
Whatever hoops the Herald made you jump through-- - I know.
- Let them go.
It's okay to be opinionated, Zoe, and it's okay to go outside to get your hands dirty.
You're no longer tied to a desk.
Or that pillow, for that matter.
I'm not going to post it.
Midterm predictions-- they're not news.
They're bullshit.
Well, I agree.
I can do better.
I think you can.
Feel free to blow my mind.
If we do this event, the whole staff walks out.
I've got 300 guests-- You signed a contract with my wife.
We'll refund your wife's organization and pay for whatever the costs of moving the event to a more appropriate venue.
And we would have to refund a half a million dollars in donations.
Can you pay for that, too? Because I'm pretty sure there's cause for damages here.
I truly apologize, sir.
Who's your boss? I spoke with the owners, and they authorized me to do what I think is best.
And do they realize that they are shutting the door on 41 members of the United States Congress? Yes, sir, they do.
I had to make a very hard judgment call.
Well, I seriously question your judgment.
You know, word travels fast in this town.
All those luncheons and conventions and dinners.
It's going to be a shame to lose all that work.
Isn't it? Congressman, you are absolutely right, but if my staff walks out, I-- Please understand the predicament I'm in.
I got an idea.
I know what we're going to do.
Honey, they're not going to let us have it inside.
We're going to have it right here on their front steps, picnic style.
What do you need from me? I need your manpower.
Yes, sir, I'm on it.
Okay, everybody, stop what you're doing, and listen up.
Yeah.
Oh, hey, Frank.
- How soon? - About three hours.
- How many people we talking? - Just 300.
The florist is going to send over whatever he has.
Great.
Francis, where are we with food? I've got hotdogs, pizzas, and soul food coming, maybe something else.
Girls, here's what I want.
I want four bars, two on each level.
The food can go there.
The silent auction goes here.
Oh, and cancel the string quartet.
Let's get a DJ.
Doug, how are we on booze? - Kegs are on the way now.
- Great.
Oh, and call Denise at the office and have her bring every donation envelope she can find.
Okay, messages, people.
Congressman Russo's office.
Yes, can you hold one minute? Thank you.
Congressman, people keep calling about the shipyards.
We don't know what to tell them.
We just say we'll give you the message.
- Keep saying that.
- Here they are, the messages and all the emails we've gotten, too.
You want me to-- Have a good night.
Who did we reach? Herald, The Times, USA Today.
All right, I want affiliate stations and cable news.
I want satellite trucks out there.
I want this on live TV.
Okay, I'm on it.
You can't do this here.
Zoe, 8:00 P.
M.
tonight, Hotel Cotesworth.
Benefit for my wife's charity.
No, wash your face and let your hair down.
This is work and play.
See you.
I can tell you right now I'm going to need two dozen.
Paul, I'm going to need those by tomorrow, okay? Your guests are your problem, not mine, Julian.
I'll close the gate.
You know, I'm no expert in fire code, but I would imagine that locking your guests in is a bigger violation than having them walk around us.
This is trespassing on private property.
You're breaking the law.
Right, okay.
Let me get Barney Hull on the phone here for you.
Here you go.
It's ringing.
Who's Barney Hull? The police commissioner.
No? Okay.
You'd rather talk to him in person, that's great.
He's coming to the party.
I'll be sure to introduce him to you.
Thanks for your hospitality.
Bar comes over here.
Put all that booze that way.
What do you want me to do? I can't lock the gates, and they've got the police on their side.
Unbelievable.
Hold on.
Cassandra, I need 200 teachers at the Cotesworth Hotel right now.
I need a full picket.
if we can get that-- I don't want to hear it.
Just get it done.
I don't give a fuck if they're teachers or not, frankly.
Just get me 200 bodies.
You know, call the teamsters.
Maybe they'll help us.
We'll give them glasses if we have to.
Tell the guys to look smart.
Charlie, get off the phone.
I need signs right now, at least a hundred.
You know what? Let them set it up.
It's actually better for us that way.
This way they can't hide from us.
You've put me in a terrible situation.
Oh, you did? British accent.
Thank you very much for all your help.
Much appreciated.
Here, we got the signs right here.
Let's hand them out fast.
Everybody single file right down the street.
This way, that way.
Okay? Well, at least he spelled it right.
Teachers protesting the education reform and achievement act have descended upon the Hotel Cotesworth in Washington, D.
C.
Union lobbyist Martin Spinella organized the demonstration.
Teachers deserve respect! Teachers deserve respect! Now, I knew you'd show up.
You bring that beautiful wife of yours? Hello Pleasure.
Thank you for coming.
Come on in.
The drinks are on the house.
Felicity.
Spinella got us shut out by the union, so we had to have the party out here on the steps.
I'll take you up to a bar right now.
Thank you for coming.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Teachers, yes! Unions, yes! Hi.
Great.
Thanks again so much for coming.
Adam's here.
You came.
Looks wonderful.
You're going to have to move over, because I have to serve this wonderful couple myself.
This is fabulous.
Only Claire could've thought of this.
I don't suppose you have anything single-malt back there.
Frank, it's worth every penny to see you on keg duty.
Well, then don't you think this is worth just a few extra pennies? Oh, let's break out the checkbook, Charles.
Did you RSVP? I assumed it didn't matter.
It doesn't.
I'm glad you're here.
When I heard your message.
You know, I shouldn't have left that, Adam.
Why not? Maybe we should talk at some point.
Make that check with a lot of zeroes, won't you? There we are.
- Cheers.
- Cheers.
Cheers.
I'm going to ask a huge favor of you since you're here.
You want to put me to work.
Yes, please.
- My pleasure.
- Come.
So these are some wonderful photographs - by an amazing photographer-- - Gillian.
Adam Galloway, nice to meet you.
And this is the photographer himself.
Freddy.
I just wanted to thank you so much.
Such a success.
My pleasure.
My pleasure.
He's the best.
I see Adam's here.
I didn't know he was coming.
- Well, guess what I got.
- What? Another check from the Holburns for $60,000.
Come on, praise me like you should.
If Frank Underwood and the United States Congress-- Hi, my name is Zoe Barnes.
I'm with Slugline.
Dismantle the rights of the American teacher? Unions, yes! Teachers, yes! Hi.
Why do you protest here? And Congress has to take this seriously.
We're here for the teachers.
We're here.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We're not asking for the world, and Congress needs to step up and get this done.
Excuse me.
That dress looks familiar.
It's the one I wore to the symphony.
Oh, yes, mutual admiration society.
That's right.
So what do you have for me? What do you mean? Well, you're surrounded by Washington's elite.
Are you saying you've overheard nothing that could be useful to either of us? I'm covering the protest.
The rest of the world is covering the protest.
You may not have noticed, but you're the only journalist inside the party.
I've been feeding you plenty.
Information is a two-way street, Miss Barnes.
- Hello.
- Claire, this is Zoe Barnes.
You met her one night at the house.
Yes, I remember.
You work for the Herald, right? Not anymore.
I actually work at Slugline now.
I've heard of it.
You read it, don't you, Francis? Religiously.
Well, you seem like a very ambitious young woman.
I like that.
Doing my best.
It's good to see you again.
Please enjoy yourself.
I will.
Thank you.
Take care, Miss Barnes.
On the steps, and she looks gorgeous, but really she's thinking, when can I go the fuck home? - I'm off.
- Already? I've done my duty, I believe.
Oh, you know me.
Always have to be the first to leave a party.
How much did you raise? $750,000.
Fantastic.
Write a check for 250, we'll break a million.
Nice try.
Thank you for coming.
And everything that you did.
Call me sometime.
I will.
So what does a clean water gala have to do with teachers' unions? Well, we have over 50 members of Congress gathered in one place.
But the fact that these members of Congress are promoting pouring money out of the country while neglecting their teachers at home is precisely the problem.
But this is private money, not public tax dollars, so But we're not protesting the cause.
We're protesting the Congressmen and women themselves.
Are these even teachers picketing? Well, sure, some of them.
And some of them are people in-- Excuse me.
Frank.
What are you-- ? Don't take the food.
We'll feed you later.
Marty, you know that old saying.
The most dangerous spot in the world is to come between a teamster and free food.
Don't take the food.
We're feeding you later.
- I'll take it.
- She'll take it.
Who else is hungry? - There you go.
- Pass it back.
Plenty more coming, guys.
I know you've all been out here for hours.
Thank you, Freddy.
The best ribs in D.
C.
Marty, come on.
You said your piece.
You got on the news.
Come and enjoy yourself.
I respect you, Claire.
You know I can't do that.
Doesn't matter what side you're on.
Everybody's got to eat.
You can have a plate of ribs.
Yes, you can.
Come on.
- I can't.
- Yes, you can.
Thank you, Claire, but I cannot.
You can do it.
Come on, Marty.
Come on.
Thank you, I can't.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Freddy's.
You should go to Freddy's.
Several dozen union sympathizers led by labor lobbyist Martin Spinella attempted to disrupt the gala.
They need to step up to the plate and take care of our teachers and our children.
The protest dissipated when fundraiser attendees offer food and drink to picketers.
Doesn't matter what side you're on.
Everybody's gotta eat.
Turn it off.
It is unclear whether the protest will continue.
What now? Call the union leadership and the chapter presidents.
See if they're ready to pull the trigger.
If they are, we strike at midnight tomorrow.
You were extraordinary.
Tomorrow, people who weren't there are gonna lie and say they were.
What are you reading? She can write.
She can.
And you can raise money.
Always for a good cause.
Thank you.
Wait in the car, please.
Hold on.
I know who that is.
Hello, Peter.
I am starving.
I forgot to eat.
Would you like something, Peter? No.
Thanks.
You should eat.
Don't fight.
She'll win.
I will.
Okay.
Yes.
You want some coffee? Yes.
Thanks.
Do you have any children? Two.
A son and a daughter.
Married? Divorced.
What are their names, your kids? Um, Sarah, she's 11, and Kevin is eight.
Do you have any pictures? Fuck! I lost my phone.
I-- sorry.
I should-- uh, I gotta go.
Peter, sit down.
You're gonna enjoy your sandwich, have some coffee, and stay the night.
Milk and sugar? Black.
Some fresh towels.
There should be soap and toothpaste, everything you need in the bathroom.
Thank you so much for doing this.
Oh, it's nothing.
Sleep well.
What's going on, Peter? Talk to me.
You think fresh towels changes anything? Changes what? The shipyard.
If I was home and you pulled that shit, I'd beat the fuck out of you.
I would crack your skull on the pavement.
That's why I came over here today, to fuck you up for what you made me do.
I don't care how nice you're being to me.
I don't give a shit.
I'm gonna wake up tomorrow and all these people all my friends are still fucked.
And I'm still fucked.
You fucked all of us.
But I'm gonna get blamed for it.
So now I have to carry that weight on my shoulders.
You fucked me, Frank.
I shouldn't have let you do it, but I did.
Are you done now? Get up.
- No.
- I said get up.
And follow me.
Now.
Get in.
Take off your clothes and get in.
Do it.
Now.
There was a D.
N.
C.
meeting earlier this week.
About the governor's race.
Your name came up as someone we might want to run.
Aspirin.
Go ahead.
Everyone in that room wanted to cross you off the list.
I said no.
I stuck up for you.
I said, "Peter Russo, he's got potential.
He's young.
He's capable.
He's going places.
" I made them keep you in contention.
You're still on that list.
You show up at my house in the middle of the night, drunk, to whine, to try to shift the blame on me instead of taking responsibility for yourself and your own actions.
Maybe they were right in that meeting.
Maybe you are worthless.
I'm the only person who believes in you, Peter, but maybe that's one too many.
The hot water will open up your capillaries.
The aspirin you just took will make your blood thinner.
It's up to you, Peter.
Oh, and if you do decide to take the coward's way out, cut along the tracks, not across them.
That's a rookie mistake.
Morning.
Morning.
You need a lift to the hill? I should go home and change my clothes.
No, no, we'll drop you.
Want some coffee? Frank One month.
Hmm? One month sober.
I can give you that.
Not for me.
For you.
Has the seed been planted? Only Peter can answer that question.
He has a choice.
Will he wither or will he thrive? Only time will tell.


We're almost a month into the strike, and we've got millions of kids stuck home from school.
Do you blame the White House or Congress? I personally have very little sympathy for the teachers.
We're over three weeks into this strike.
It's costing the country billions of dollars, and instead of offering solutions-- There's a big difference between taking a stand and sitting on your hands.
I don't know whether to call it cowardice It's his agenda, and the problem is that he stole sound, conservative ideas.
The only smart thing he's done is lift his platform from the republican platform.
I admit it, Linda.
This got away from me.
But we can't turn back time.
We have to hold our ground.
While our approval ratings continue to nosedive? Spinella and I worked together for years on dozens of labor-related bills.
- I thought he'd be reasonable.
- You were wrong about that.
Well, I didn't think he'd be insane enough to go on strike, and I didn't think the strike would last this long.
So you've been wrong twice about this.
Why should I believe you're right about holding out? We threatened collective bargaining in order to get performance standards and charter funding.
That's the deal that we made.
We took that stand.
We lay down now, we lose it all.
There'll be no reform, just an empty bill.
I understand the logic, Frank, but we're in damage control now.
We can't close one wound by opening another.
But we're the democrats.
We're the ones who are supposed to be defending the teachers.
But you can't have it both ways, Linda.
You can't have the reform you want and keep the teachers happy at the same time.
You knew that when we started.
Okay, then if we have to choose, we choose to keep the teachers happy.
That is a mistake, Linda.
We've already crossed the rubicon.
I'm telling you this-- the president wants to change the bill.
We should've done it three weeks ago.
We didn't.
So you have to do it now.
Give me more time, Linda, please.
If I can break this strike and get everything we want in this bill, can we agree that's preferable to folding? Of course.
If we can count on that-- Then count on me for just one more week.
If the strike isn't over by then, I'll change the bill.
- Frank-- - No.
One more week.
That's all.
This is the worst possible position to be in.
If I water down the bill, the president will still me as a failure.
If the strike doesn't end in a week, I forced myself into a corner.
Only total victory will put me back in his good graces.
The alternative is exile, which would mean the last five months were for nothing.
I cannot abide falling back to square one.
You need me, ma'am? No.
I just was wondering if you wanted a cup of coffee.
I just brewed a fresh pot.
- I'm good, ma'am.
But thanks.
- Are you sure? My shift's done in a couple hours.
I'll be fine.
No.
Come on.
Stretch your legs.
I won't take no for an answer.
What did you do before you joined the leadership detail? I was a cop here in DC.
Before that, I was in the Marines, ma'am.
- Thank you.
- Did you serve overseas? I did, ma'am.
Bahrain, then Afghanistan.
Served most of my second tour in the Korangal Valley.
You wanna know if I killed anyone? I think I know the answer.
- I got a dinner meeting with birch.
- I invited him in for coffee.
Well, drink it fast.
We leave in five Get down! Stay away from the windows! Stop! You'll have six of my best men covering you around the clock.
I guess I'm wondering why we didn't at least have one of your best men covering us now.
He'll be disciplined, sir.
He shot a gun in a residential neighborhood.
- I want him fired.
- There will be a full investigation, and we'll take the necessary action.
Steve never would've let this happen.
Is he better yet? Because I would feel a lot safer if he was with us.
Unfortunately, he won't be coming back, sir.
I thought he just had a gallbladder infection.
He did, but they found more.
His pancreas, stage four.
- Jesus.
- Oh, my God.
That's awful.
How much longer does he have? Not long.
A few weeks.
At least that's what his wife told me.
We have to go see him.
Can you get the information where he is? Of course.
I'll make sure you get it right away.
- Thank you, Captain.
- Thank you.
You're welcome.
Good night.
- Front door.
- Yes, sir.
Your weapon.
Your badge too.
Am I suspended, sir? You had a suspect on foot, and you fire your gun? - Sir, I realize that-- - Do you know how this reflects on me? That one of our men could be so careless? Not only do you abandon your post for coffee You could've killed a bystander.
That slug was found in somebody's front stoop.
What if it went in their house? Your badge, Meechum.
Two reasons, which are really the same reason.
I was sick of working for other people, and I knew I could do a better job than my bosses.
They kept trying to suppress me, shutting me out.
So I said, "fuck it.
I'll do it my way.
" - Then you just quit? - Not like you did.
I slaved away until I lined up the money to start Slugline.
Once Slugline gets big enough, what's the plan? Are you gonna sell it like Arianna? Probably.
And then who knows? Whatever the next adventure is.
Maybe Shanghai.
So I shouldn't expect to have a job in two years? Do you ever wanna have any job for more than two years? What about you? What's your big plan? Uh, I don't know yet.
Come on.
Slugline is just a stepping stone for you.
- You know what? I should take this.
- Go.
Do your thing.
Hey.
You have proof Spinella was behind it? Put it in context.
Three weeks into a national teachers' strike-- At the home of Francis Underwood, who has led the charge on-- There you go.
Now post that before one of my neighbors calls a local 11:00 hack.
- When do I see you next? - I'm background on this.
I'm not your source.
You can't talk now? - No.
- When? Soon, with bells on.
What about "more school books, less bricks"? Nah, it's too broad.
We need a better sound bite.
Something specific, something that points the finger directly at Spinella.
- He'll deny any involvement.
- Of course he will.
- So how do we get around that? - We say he can't control his troops.
- There's no evidence it was a teacher.
- Who else could it be? He's gonna shift blame for the strike back on congress.
No.
We need something clear, something clean, something that sticks in your head.
"Teachers need a lesson in self-restraint.
" No.
You're not hearing me.
People like teachers.
No.
We need something that makes Spinella the villain.
- His lack of control, his inability-- - Disorganized labor.
It's disorganized labor, plain and simple.
When you've got angry teachers throwing bricks through congressmen's windows, you've gotta blame the union leadership.
We'll be beefing up the security for the entire leadership.
And I strongly encourage Marty Spinella to keep his people in line.
This is starting to look like disorganized labor.
Do you really think Marty Spinella is to blame? Whether Mr.
Spinella is behind this or not, he might wanna tone down the rhetoric before disorganized labor turns into organized crime.
No one can prove anything.
So that's the most cogent response.
Well, go on TV and say that.
You deplore violence in any form.
It's congress that should take responsibility.
I don't want to degenerate to Frank's level.
We need to kill this brick thing.
It's distracting people from the issues.
She's right.
It'll eat up one cycle, and it'll disappear.
No.
This story is getting traction.
Support for the strike is dipping.
So is the president's approval ratings.
But he gets to say in the oval office another three years, no matter what.
We can't afford another three weeks.
When I told the unions to strike, I told them to prepare for the long haul.
All right? Their accounts dry up, we keep going.
We figure it out.
I am not going to blink over something like this.
Fine.
But if we lose the public relations battle, none of that does us any good.
Frank wants us on the defensive.
I think this story is going to blow over.
If I'm wrong, we'll reevaluate.
But I wanna give it another day or two first.
Okay? Hi, Adam.
You all right? I saw the news.
Yes, I'm fine.
That's gotta rattle the nerves-- A brick coming through the window.
It did, some.
So are you staying in the house? We've got extra security now, so Well, um, it made me think of you, so I figured I'd just check in.
I appreciate that.
We still haven't talked, have we? - There's no need to.
- I think we should.
Here's how I see it.
You asked me to come down.
I did.
We both had ideas about what that could mean.
Probably very similar ideas.
But then you changed your mind.
So be it.
There's no reason we can't be in touch or remain friends.
Let's not fool ourselves, Adam.
So I won't call again.
- Done.
- I'm not saying that.
What are you saying? I just called because I care about you.
No agenda.
If you wanna talk again, call me.
If not, I understand.
It's up to you.
You think I'm being unreasonable? I think you're doing whatever it is you need to do, and I'm not gonna question it.
It was sweet of you to call.
Listen, you probably need to get back to work.
I know I do.
I should go.
Yeah.
Okay.
- Take care.
- Okay.
- Frank, you got a minute? - I'll see you inside.
I wanna be governor, and I want your help.
- Am I still on the short list? - You are.
I haven't had a drink in over a month.
I'm clean.
Is that because I asked, or because it's what you want? It was about time I took responsibility for myself.
Taking responsibility is one thing, and it's admirable.
But running for governor of a major state is a whole other ball game.
Let me tell you something, Frank.
I got elected to congress 'cause I seized the moment that opportunity struck.
You kept me on that list.
I wanna seize that opportunity.
If you help me out, I'll give you everything I got.
Well, that's all I've been waiting to hear.
All right.
I'll tell you what.
I need to make some calls, check in with some people.
Give me a few days.
I'll get back to you.
- Of course.
- And, Peter I feel like I've met the real you for the first time just now.
Janet.
- Is this a bad time? - No.
No, not at all.
I'm sorry.
I didn't know you were coming.
Here.
Take my chair.
- Oh, no.
I'm fine.
- I'll take these.
Thank you.
- Hello, Steve.
- Hey.
These could use some water.
I'll be right back.
Francis and I were so upset when we heard.
I'm sorry I haven't come sooner.
I didn't want too many people knowing.
Yes.
Francis wishes he could be here.
He wants you to know he's praying for you.
- Couldn't make it, huh? - No, there's a big teachers' strike going on right now, and he's been stuck in his office for weeks.
I get it.
I saw on the news.
- The brick.
- Right.
I told Francis that probably wouldn't have happened if you were there.
No.
Probably not.
I never seen him pray.
Not in eight years.
You said he was praying for me.
You've seen us in church.
Yeah, but I never went inside.
They're just gorgeous.
Mrs.
Underwood, thank you so much.
Please, call me Claire.
- I know you got things to do.
- Of course.
If you need anything at all, call me.
You have my cell.
Anything at all.
And I'm sorry to have surprised you.
No.
It was so nice of you to come.
Thank you.
I know Steve appreciated it.
Check this out.
It's foam.
- How many of these we have? - 200.
But I can get more.
Get more.
Bring it on! You need to give the teachers the respect they deserve.
We can't back away from this, Marty.
- We've gotta face it head-on.
- They provoked us.
They were throwing foam.
Our guys were throwing punches.
We're gonna come off the bad guys here.
Okay.
Okay.
I get it.
I get it.
But I wanna be smart about this.
I wanna do something definitive that'll put this to bed - and get us back on message.
- CNN, one on one, you and Underwood.
Frank is excellent in debates.
Go strong against him.
Address the brick right to his face.
- End of story.
- Underwood says he's in if you are.
Okay.
But I want as much prep as possible, okay? I want to run questions.
You moderate, you play Underwood.
Wear this one.
Then come in here.
I wanna put powder on you.
Well, somebody at the studio can do that.
Yes, and they always cake on too much.
I'm doing it.
War paint.
How bloody do you think it'll be? Oh, I think I oughta be able to dispatch with him easily enough.
Oh, you remember Peter Russo? He's doing well.
He hasn't had a drink in a month.
Oh, good for him.
I like him.
Oh, good, because he could use your help.
- How? - We're running him for Governor.
- Ambitious.
- Mmm.
We wanna create jobs in his district.
It's on the Delaware River.
I thought we might be able to put a bill together.
Something with an economic upside.
This has to do with the shipyard closing? We need the shipbuilders' support for his campaign.
You think you might be able to draft a bill that he can sponsor? I'm really trying to focus on international projects, Francis.
Not domestic legislation.
I understand, but I could really use your help, Claire.
Does Catherine durant still owe us? When you make someone Secretary of State, they owe you for life.
We're having trouble getting our water filters through sudanese customs.
- I'll call from the car.
- Tomorrow's fine.
- I would have done that anyway.
- I know.
I'm ready for battle.
You wanna come watch? - No.
You go on ahead.
- Oh, come on.
Watch me put the final nail in Spinella's coffin.
It'll be fun.
Marty.
Frank.
Come on, people.
Take your marks.
Congressman, would you like to respond to that? Yes, I would.
Two billion dollars of taxpayer's money being wasted.
And congress should be ashamed of itself for that, Frank.
Oh, what? Did congress force the teachers to go on strike? - No, we didn't.
- Really, Frank? When you threaten teachers' ability to negotiate as a union, when you threaten their job security, you threaten their livelihood, of course you force them to strike.
And did we also force them to start throwing bricks at people's houses? I'm really glad you brought that up, because you know there's absolutely no proof that that incident had anything to do with this strike.
And I wanna take the opportunity to say publicly that we categorically condemn any use of violence whatsoever or intimidation.
What you're saying essentially is that you can't control your own people.
- That is not what I'm saying.
- That is what you're saying.
You're disorganized.
- Disorganized labor.
- You can keep trotting out that phrase all you like, but you know what I'd like to do, Frank? I would like to get back to the issue here of educating our children and the fact that congress is not living up to their commitment.
Well, you know what I would like? What? An apology.
If not to me, then to my wife.
When that brick came through our window, it was terrifying.
She's standing right over there.
- Claire? - We need camera two on the wife.
Now, why don't you look her in the eye and tell her that your people had nothing to do with that brick.
- Are you serious? - Yes.
Okay.
Mrs.
Underwood, Claire, I am sincerely sorry that you had to go through that ordeal, truly.
And it actually sickens me that someone made you feel unsafe in your own home.
And I give you my word that to the best of my knowledge, none of our people had anything to do with it.
But you know what sickens me more? That right now, your husband is using you as a prop on national television to try and win a debate.
So I think you're the one that owes your wife an apology, Frank.
And when you're done apologizing, can we please get back to the issue here of educating our children? No.
You've got this wrong, Marty.
There is no "you" and "I" in education.
Well, I mean, yes, there's the letters "U" and "I" are in the word "education.
" But "Education" with a capital E You know what I'm talking about.
I don't think I do.
Yes, you do, Marty.
U and I-- Education.
So, what, we're gonna waste the rest of this debate naming all the vowels in-- I'm happy to play the vowel game.
You wanna play the vowel game with me? All right.
U think I O U A apology.
But no, no, no.
U O I Interesting.
You left out E for "Education.
" - So let-- - Defecation-- Edification.
I'm sorry.
LOL.
Uh, uh Uh You like sesame street so much? Why don't you give the kids the money they deserve? What I'm trying to say about education Well, I guess school's still in session.
I guess you schooled me there, Marty.
Let's move on.
Please.
Humor aside, there are more important issues out there.
I had no intention of bringing you into this.
It wasn't part of a plan.
I would've told you if it was.
I know.
The idea just struck me, and I went with it.
I don't mind that you improvised.
I just wish you'd done it better.
Congressman Frank Underwood says he got, quote, "schooled" by AFT spokesman and chief strategist, Martin Spinella, during a debate last night on this network.
In the past 24 hours, reruns of the gaffe have played non-stop on TV news programs and the internet.
A YouTube clip set to techno music has logged more than 300,000 hits and spawned dozens of other spoofs.
No No E O I with a capital "E" education LOL That was as clumsy as the Lee Harvey Oswald prison transfer.
What was he thinking? Just give me one second.
There's a deli.
Down the street.
Patti, thanks for coming.
Sit down.
You want some coffee? No, thanks.
I'm good.
Hey, did you see bill Maher last night? No, I didn't.
Oh, it was about the CNN thing.
I have to admit, Frank, it was kinda funny.
Well, I'll have to catch a rerun.
How you doing? You holding up all right with the strike? Let's talk about Pennsylvania.
I have your candidate.
Peter Russo.
First Congressional District.
We crossed him off.
I know.
It's a mistake.
He's young, he's handsome.
He's bright.
Nobody knows who he is outside of Philadelphia.
There's no donor base, no infrastructure.
You start me off with funding from the DNC and I'll raise an army around this guy.
I will personally oversee his campaign.
Is that the best we can do? What's better than a blank slate in the right hands? Ed, you need to go.
Congressman, do you have a moment? Thank you, Patti.
- Have him call me.
- I will.
Ed? Please.
- What is going on? - I'm taking care of it.
One second, sir.
Please.
All right.
Make it fast, Meechum.
It's not easy for me to ask this, but I was wondering if you could put in a good word with my boss.
A good word? They're going to discharge me, sir.
I messed up.
I'm fully aware.
But my job, it means everything to me, and I know a good word from you would Look, I have nothing against you personally, Meechum, but I can't get involved in these sort of affairs.
There's protocols and rules.
Sir, please, if you spoke to Cardiff-- There is nothing that I can do.
If anyone can convince the captain, it would be you, Congressman.
I'm sorry.
I wish you all the best, Meechum.
Doug.
What did Barney hull say? That we'd be the first to know.
I can't believe there hasn't been a single 911 call.
There's been plenty.
It's just not the sort we're after.
We got that kid in Atlanta.
No, it's got to be here.
I can't be getting on a plane.
It looks too opportunistic.
Maybe if we open it up a little bit.
No, we cannot lower our standards.
We just have to be patient.
New rule-- now that the debate's over, Frank Underwood has to tell us what the hell that was.
Seriously, Congressman, was that a joke? I haven't seen something just lay there like that since, uh I gotta go all the way back to my prom night.
Can we just settle this strike please? Teachers have been out of the classroom for so long, middle schoolers are starting to have sex with each other.
Enough.
I don't know why you had it on in the first place.
I love you, Francis.
I know.
We should say that more often to each other.
I need to clear my head.
north and east of the airport.
I'm gonna need that in time for that meeting.
Peter, let's talk.
So.
I've spoken to Patricia Whittaker.
She's on board.
You'll be getting four million in start-up funding from the DNC.
I'll pick the team.
You announce in August.
But the campaign starts today.
Are you ready? I've already put together a platform.
It's mostly broad strokes, but we can hone it.
Good.
The first thing we need to address is your sobriety.
Oh, you don't need to worry about that.
Have you been going to meetings? You mean AA? - Yes.
- That's not really my thing.
If you want my help, then going to meetings is my one requirement.
I know I had a problem, Frank.
I accept that.
And I've taken responsibility for that, but I don't think going to meetings is necessary.
You cannot white-knuckle your recovery, Peter.
This campaign will be the hardest thing you've ever done in your life.
I realize that.
I'm prepared for that.
You think you are.
But we can't take any chances.
The party's investing in you.
I need to make sure you're investing in yourself.
All right.
I'll do whatever I have to do.
Good.
You'll start tomorrow morning.
- Doug will take you.
- Stamper? He's been sober 14 years.
Doug has a drinking problem? Had.
Not anymore.
He'll be your sponsor.
In the meantime, I want you to meet with my wife, Claire.
She runs the clean water initiative.
She's expecting you, so clear your schedule and head over there now.
Frank.
Thank you.
For believing in me.
You're gonna make a great candidate, Peter.
The shipyard closing frees up Our goal is to pass a watershed act for the Delaware River.
We develop the land in an environmentally-responsible way, creating jobs in the process.
How many jobs? Thousands.
We're aiming for the $200-million mark.
We got a lot of work to do.
We do, but you can start with the congressman whose districts fall within the watershed.
Do you have a draft of the bill you can show me? We haven't sponsored any environmental legislation.
We'll draft it in consultation with your staff.
Gillian will be the point person on our end.
I don't have any legislation experience.
- I'll help you.
- When do we start? We just did.
Will you introduce him to the research team? - I'll be there in one second.
- Sure.
Mr.
President? I want it over.
As soon as possible.
Gut the bill, Frank.
Do whatever's necessary to end this.
Mr.
President, if we give in now, the public won't credit you with a victory.
Not even a hollow one.
They'll chalk it up as a colossal defeat.
Well, that's on you, Frank.
You let this situation devolve to where it is.
I've already been blamed for the largest teacher's strike in US history.
I won't be held accountable for it dragging on months and months.
Mr.
President, we have to end this strike on your terms.
Not anyone else's.
How? By debating Marty Spinella on CNN? Sir, you have placed your faith in me thus far.
I would ask that you continue to do so.
Whatever you're doing, Frank, isn't working, so I'm stepping in.
Gut the bill.
Like Linda said.
No.
I'm sorry, Mr.
President, but I will not do that.
Are you letting pride cloud your judgment, Frank? Respectfully, sir, you're allowing fear to cloud yours.
Not an easy thing to say no to the most powerful man in the free world.
But sometimes the only way to gain your superior's respect is to defy him.
What do we have on the schedule, Linda? Your meeting with the Thank you, Mr.
President.
- Do you have my briefing? - Right here.
Good.
Let's look it over.
Hi.
How'd it go with Peter? It went well.
Is he game? Completely.
Ugh.
Thank you.
That's a big weight off my shoulders.
You sound tired.
Tired.
Impatient.
What can I do? Nothing.
This one's up to fate.
I don't like when we leave things to fate.
Neither do I.
Does that mean I'm gonna have the bed to myself tonight? Probably.
Can't Doug man the fort? Well, he could, but I'd just toss and turn.
If I'm not gonna sleep, I might as well not sleep here.
Well, I'll leave the ringer on.
Call me if you want company.
I will.
Goodnight.
Goodnight.
You should go home.
I can take it from here.
Vigilance.
It's good for the soul.
What's that? Disorderly conduct.
Do you believe in karma? Absolutely not.
Well, I do.
At least tonight.
Get Captain Cardiff on the phone.
Let's do something about Meechum.
What? Get him his job back.
He fired his weapon.
He overreacted.
Cardiff.
On the phone.
Now.
Nancy, give me Captain Cardiff, please.
We might as well do one productive thing while we wait.
It requires very little of me and will mean the world to him.
It's a very inexpensive investment.
Hello, sir.
This is Doug Stamper.
I have Francis Underwood for you.
I got him on.
Captain, I know it's late, but I'd like to talk to you about Edward Meechum.
Good morning, gentlemen.
Thank you.
- Are you hungry? - Mm-hmm.
You have any trouble getting in? Nah, they made me put it through the X-ray machine twice.
So I hope it didn't overcook it.
Frank, you always pay too much.
This is way too much.
For the inconvenience.
You know, 20 years you been coming to my joint.
This the first time I been to yours.
What do you think? I could get used to it.
Well, you're welcome any time.
Thank you, Freddy.
Always, Frank.
Got a That's a drive-by shooting.
Get details.
Sir, I want to thank you for talking to the captain.
He told me you called, and I can't tell you how grateful I am.
I want you to listen very closely to what I'm about to say.
From this moment on, you are a rock.
You absorb nothing, you say nothing, and nothing breaks you.
- Is that clear? - Yes, sir.
Welcome back.
Steve? I'll leave you be.
Where, uh-- where's Janet? She's been here every day for the last few weeks.
I told her go home, get some rest.
Well, is everything okay? Your text said it was important.
I don't know how to put this.
The thing is, I I've been thinking.
A lot.
About my life.
About the things I haven't done.
Things I haven't said.
I hate your husband.
A lot of people do.
The past eight years, I watched over him.
But it wasn't him I was watching.
And every time I saw you, every time I heard your voice, all I could think to myself was, "Jesus, what I wouldn't give.
" I can't tell you how many times I thought about that.
You know what Francis said to me when he proposed? I remember his exact words.
He said, "Claire, if all you want is happiness, say no.
I'm not gonna give you a couple of kids and count the days until retirement.
I promise you freedom from that.
I promise you'll never be bored.
" You know, he was the only man-- and there were a lot of others who proposed.
But he was the only one who understood me.
He didn't put me on some pedestal.
He knew that I didn't want to be adored or coddled.
So he took my hand and he put a ring on it.
Because he knew I'd say yes.
He's a man who knows how to take what he wants.
Is this what you wanted? Is that the way you wanted it? Stop.
Stop.
Please.
Please.
Stop.
Don't.
You told me your truth.
Now you know mine.
Hey, it's Peter.
I don't expect you to call me back, but I wanted to let you know I stopped drinking, and I went to my first AA meeting.
Um, I'm supposed to reach out and make amends to those I've hurt.
But I guess the real reason I called you is just to say I love you and I miss you.
I hope you're well.
This is work, not play.
Then why'd you bother coming over? I was hoping you'd answer the door naked.
That would be play.
That would be work with a view.
Sorry to disappoint.
How many characters in a tweet? Type this, let me know where you land.
"Eight-year-old Washington DC boy killed by a stray bullet in gangland shoot-out.
" "Should have been in school"? "Spinella to blame?" Press "send.
" Now give me a name, details.
Tyler Davis.
Third grader at Vernon Baker Elementary.
Shot outside his home in southeast just before noon today.
Sent.
Where are you going? - To see the mother.
- You don't wanna? There's work to do.
I'll see you later tonight.
Tyler never did anything wrong.
He was a good boy.
Everybody loved him.
It's okay.
If Tyler's school had been in session, this senseless killing would have never taken place.
We need to end this strike now and get all our children back in school where they belong before we risk another death like this.
So, Mr.
Spinella, I am headed to the capitol right now, and I will remain there until you are ready to meet and talk so that we can end this pointless strike.
Thank you all for coming.
Let's go back inside.
Mr.
Spinella, one question Mr.
Spinella is not to make a comment at this time.
No comment.
No comment.
Thank you.
Frank.
So? You said you wanted to talk.
You said you wanted to work out a compromise.
I lied.
Excuse me? I have no intention of working out a compromise.
So then why the fuck are we here, Frank? What the hell's the matter with you? You think this is some kind of a game? No.
These are real people with families to feed.
Would you please stop that? Stop what? In five seconds, I'm out of here.
One.
Two.
Three.
- Four.
- Goodbye, Frank.
You know the difference between you and me, Marty? What? I'm a white-trash cracker from a white-trash town that no one would even bother to piss on.
But here's the difference-- I've made something of myself.
I have the keys to the capitol.
People respect me.
But you, you're still nothing.
You're just an uppity dago in an expensive suit turning tricks for the unions.
Nobody respects the unions anymore, Marty.
They're dying.
And no one respects you.
The most you'll ever make of yourself is blowing men like me.
Men with real power.
Yes.
I can smell the cock on your breath from here.
You think you can get under my skin? I know I can.
Kiss my ass, Frank.
You can't afford to walk out.
Watch me.
I've got a dead, underprivileged kid in my pocket.
What do you have? I have 2 million honorable teachers.
Fair enough.
But I got something even better.
Go ahead.
Open it.
Okay.
I'll play your game.
You're an idiot.
Stamper threw it.
You're full of shit.
Oh, no, Stamper threw the brick.
And I made sure Claire distracted my security.
Are you kidding me? And to think you wanted me to apologize to my wife.
You would do something that low, Frank? I arranged the brick, Marty, just like I arranged this meeting this afternoon.
Back off, Frank.
Why don't you just get down on your knees - where you really belong? - Back off, Frank.
Because the only thing you're gonna get from me - is come on your-- - Fuck you! Everything okay in there? Ugh.
Look, I'll-- I'll tell them you provoked me.
I'll tell them that you threw the brick yourself.
And who's going to believe you? You just assaulted a United States congressman, which is a felony.
But I'm not gonna press charges, Marty.
Because the strike ends now.
You think it'll leave a scar? I have a thick skin.
The next time you ask me to invite someone in for coffee, will you please make sure no guns go off? I'll do my best.
I saw Steve again today.
How is he? In a lot of pain.
Should I go see him? I don't think you need to.
Zoe Barnes.
When he dies, we'll pay for his funeral.
You don't need to take it? No.
I'm done with work today.

Set them up over here.
Vice President Matthews.
- Bob.
- Mr.
Vice President.
- Mr.
Vice President.
- Frank.
Sir, I'm gonna need you to stand on your mark.
I'm fine right here.
Two minutes, people.
So they pull me from the car.
Both legs broken, fractured skull, punctured lung.
My heart stops.
Two full minutes.
They're pumping my chest.
Nothing.
They grab the defibrillators.
Pachoom! Nothing.
Third time, the pistons start firing.
Doctors tell me it's a miracle I'm alive.
But, seriously, you talk about a wake-up call from God.
You don't get to come back from the dead twice.
The President of the United States.
Good morning.
"The education reform and achievement act that I sign into law today will affect every child and parent in the United States, will ensure a better educated workforce for decades to come, and will reinforce America's preeminence as an intellectual superpower.
And I'd like to thank one man in particular who never lost sight of the larger mission, who spearheaded this bill from the beginning, and that's congressman Frank Underwood.
" Invited guests, please join us in the east room for refreshments.
Media, we will convene immediately in the briefing room for our conference.
Linda, thank you so much for all the help you gave us in getting this bill passed.
No, thank you, Frank.
This was your baby from the beginning.
I appreciate you standing your ground on this one, Frank.
I'm smart enough to admit when I was wrong.
I was just telling Frank we should set up a weekly so he can keep us up to date on what's going on in the house.
That sounds like a great idea.
Congratulations, sir.
Garrett, I was wondering if we could talk for a few minutes.
That thing I mentioned a couple of weeks ago about the jobs tax credit I've been giving it a lot of thought, Jim, and I think it's a good idea.
But I'd like to look over my notes first, if you don't mind, so I can talk about it intelligently with you.
Sir, you have your call with the Prime Minister.
Busy man.
Yes, he is.
Frank, I hear that you are heading up the special election in my home state.
- Peter Russo.
- We're trying to keep that under the radar until he officially announces.
In fact, we're not even working out of my office until that happens.
- Where are you working from? - The basement of my house.
Any reason why the D.
N.
C.
didn't ask my advice on the candidate? Well, I thought they passed it by you, or Linda did.
- Nobody did.
- Well, that is unacceptable.
And I have major doubts about Russo.
- His inexperience? - Yes, and he's urban-based.
- Mm.
- I don't know if he'll connect with rural voters.
Look, frankly, that's one of my concerns as well.
We're working on that.
But if you were to come out and stump with him, that would go a long way to convince Frank, I can't stump for somebody I don't believe in.
It's early days yet.
I'd ask you to keep an open mind.
And let me know if you want me to set up a meeting between the two of you, because, sir, an endorsement from you would be a big coup for him.
It's good to see you, Mr.
Vice President.
Frank.
Congressman Underwood? Miss Barnes, I was under the impression you didn't wanna cover the White House.
Slugline just got access yesterday.
- I know.
- I left the herald because I didn't wanna cover the White House, and now here I am.
Access isn't the same as a ball and chain.
Am I only gonna see you at bill signings now? I haven't heard from you in three weeks.
Insecurity bores me.
I feel the same way about condescension.
Your place, this evening, and I'll text you when I'm about to arrive.
What if I'm busy? You're just afraid I'm gonna stand you up again.
I just wanna make sure it's worth my while.
It'll be worth your while.
This'll make up for last time.
It's a piece of history.
From the President's hand to yours.
You believe in all that higher-power stuff they talk about in the room? I believe there are things beyond our control.
Who or what's controlling them that I don't know.
I don't believe in God.
Heaven, hell.
None of it.
- Too much catholic school? - Maybe.
I'm not saying you have to believe in God, Peter, or anything, for that matter.
But you shouldn't rule anything out.
I should go.
It's on the campaign.
Our cross tabs show 81% of likely voters are willing to consider a recovering alcoholic.
Now, those numbers dip a little when you introduce cocaine, but not by much.
Randy? It's a risk, but it'll make waves.
Free coverage across the board.
The narrative has to be redemption.
A Phoenix from the ashes.
Well, let's not focus on the ashes.
We don't want people to think Peter was a disaster.
No, no.
We focus on the positive.
A "fresh start" and a "clean start" both did well in focus groups.
"Clean start" sounds too much like "clean slate.
" I like "fresh start.
" Yeah, I do too.
- How we doing on the fund-raising? - The alcoholic thing will turn off some of the in-state donors, but it's an off-year election.
We can hit up the usual suspects in New York and California.
Walter, how vulnerable are we? I'm not prepared to answer that question.
Peter and I have yet to perform the holy sacrament of confession.
We still need to address the shipyard closing too.
Claire's helping us with that.
We are pushing a bill called the Delaware river watershed act, and I think it's going to bring about 5,000 jobs into Peter's district over the next three years.
We have a draft of the bill completed.
Peter's in the process of securing cosponsors.
And who have you called, by the way? I have some e-mails out, but most of them wanna see a bill first.
Have you set up a meeting with the shipbuilders yet? I don't think they're gonna back me.
That's the entire point of the bill, Peter.
Well, if I go to them and I say, "hey, some of you maybe will get your jobs back, "not tomorrow, but three years from now, and most of you won't be getting your jobs back anyway " all right, let's put a pin in this until we get more sponsors.
I have to go to the office.
I'll catch you all later.
Okay, let's move on to our field plan.
I want to go through the regions one by one Francis.
We spent six weeks on that bill.
It'll be fine.
He'll come around.
I'll see you later tonight? I have an appointment.
So I won't see you until morning.
I'll be back before you get up.
I appreciate your taking the time today, sir.
Did you get that tax credit memo the economic research team put together? You didn't ask me here to talk about memos.
I know small talk when I hear it, Linda.
The President has asked that you take a step back from Pennsylvania.
You've been taking a lot of trips there, meeting with legislators it's my home state.
There's a jobs crisis.
We can't afford to play favorites.
The message is 50 states, one solution; not one state, 50 solutions.
I never expected to be involved in every policy or decision, but I have been completely cut out of everything.
We value your input, Mr.
Vice President, - but right now, we can't - Don't condescend, Linda.
No one even asked me who I thought should fill my seat.
Why is Frank Underwood leading the charge on that, not me? That is a D.
N.
C.
issue.
We are staying out of it and so should you.
And so I'm supposed to just cut ribbons and go to funerals? You knew what you signed up for.
Thank you, Mr.
Vice President.
I didn't get my pen.
- Your pen? - From the bill signing.
Oh, we'll see what we can do about that.
I can see your security guy.
Meechum? He's cute.
He'd never go for you.
Why not? You're too intimidating.
He's the one with the gun.
But you're the one with the congressman.
Uh-uh.
We'll talk after.
We'll talk before.
Peter Russo.
Pennsylvania's first district.
He's gonna run for governor.
Fill Matthews' seat.
It's an exclusive profile.
With someone no one's ever heard of.
What's the angle? Alcohol, drugs.
He's a kid from the streets.
I want the profile to come out as soon as he announces, and I'd like it to be kind.
I don't write puff pieces.
Then get someone else to write it.
I thought you had something for me.
It's too easy for people to link me as your source.
It's dangerous.
I don't benefit from handing out headlines to other people.
Generosity is its own form of power, Zoe.
Step six.
Step seven.
You always wear sunglasses at night? How did you find me? I figured you had to be in government.
I kept googling till I found your picture.
This won't work, what you're doing.
It was a one-time deal.
- You don't get to keep coming back for more.
- I'll go to the police.
They'll laugh in your face.
Look at you.
If the police won't listen to me, I'll call TV stations.
I know the names Douglas Stamper, Peter Russo, Frank Underwood.
You are walking down a road you do not want to walk down.
Please, I won't call anyone.
But I need your help.
I don't have anywhere to go.
I don't have anyone I can call.
I've had to do things.
And I don't wanna do it anymore.
That's all I've got right now.
Find a place to stay and let me know where you are.
I'll figure something out.
You hungry? What's your name? Sapphire.
No.
What's your name? Rachel.
Your ex-wife anything uncouth? - How do you mean? - Bondage, orgies, water sports? - No.
Definitely not.
- Narcotics? - She wasn't into that.
- Not even a little ganga? - Okay.
Once in a blue moon.
- Ever with your children? - God, no! - Ever in front of them? Look, I'm not the world's best dad, but I would never do that.
Fine.
Let's move on to prostitution.
How long is this gonna take? Until there's nothing I don't know about you.
I wrote all this down.
I've been doing this a long time, congressman.
I know when I've scraped all the shit off the shoe.
Prostitution.
After my divorce, I took a trip to Thailand.
It was about two weeks.
How many women? Ten.
Fifteen.
- I I don't know.
It was a bit of a blur.
- There were drugs? Uh, yes.
Opium, speed, some smack.
- Powder or needles? - Both.
Would any of these women know who you are? No.
None of them spoke English.
And I never mentioned I was a congressman.
Have you mainlined heroin back here in the States? - Just once.
- Any scars on your arm? No.
I was mainly into cocaine.
What about prostitutes here in D.
C.
? How often? - I fucked around a bit, okay? - Details, please.
Do you get off on this or something? Does a doctor enjoy it when he cups your balls and asks you to cough? You wanna know how many times I came? I honestly don't care whether you win.
But if you do, work with me.
How often did you solicit prostitutes in D.
C.
? Once every two or three months.
Sometimes more frequently, sometimes less.
Do you have reason to believe any of them were underage? Jesus! No.
Look, they were mostly high-end.
That doesn't mean they were 18.
I need a fucking break! What's going on? He's an amateur, Frank.
If I can get under his skin in less than an hour, how do you think he'll hold up under the press? It'll be a Turkey shoot.
All right.
I'll speak to him.
Frank, it's just it's not gonna work.
I'm gonna get crucified.
You'll be fine.
We've got a crack team behind you.
It doesn't matter how good the team is.
With my past? Come on.
From the very beginning, I said this was the plan.
- You agreed to it.
- I didn't think it through.
We have to tackle this head-on, or the G.
O.
P.
will crucify you.
We have to steal their ammunition from them.
Honesty is your best defense and offense.
I'm the one that has to get in front of these cameras and say this shit.
They don't have to say it.
I do.
- Peter - I wanna be governor.
I do.
But not this way.
I just can't do it.
If you weren't unsure now, there'd be something wrong with you.
I expected this.
Not easy what we're asking you to do.
It's okay to vacillate a little.
I'm not trying to throw a wrench in the works.
I know you're not.
I'll tell you what.
You take the rest of the day off.
You go back to your office, you catch up with whatever you have to catch up on, you get a good night's sleep, you go to a meeting tomorrow, and then you come here and we'll talk the whole thing through.
Can you give me at least that? Yeah.
Okay, Frank.
Good.
What's going on with all the little sculptures? I found a flower on the dining room table and a bird on the nightstand a few days ago.
It's a swan.
You made them? Yes.
A new hobby? No.
It's an interest.
May I bring up something else I've noticed? What's that? You Standing in front of the refrigerator.
Is there a reason you haven't talked to me about it? I haven't felt the need to.
Is it bad? It's not pleasant.
But, no, it's not bad.
What can I do? Nothing.
If there was something, I'd ask.
- Did you think it was weird that I called you? - Totally weird.
Except for the fact that I was planning on calling you.
Really? Why? I was a real grade-a bitch to you at the herald, and I almost apologized when I saw you at the White House, but I chickened out.
So, anyway, I am drunk enough, and I am sorry.
Why did you call me? I was just wondering how things were going at the old stomping ground.
- Here you go.
- Thank you.
It's just not the same since tom left.
And I don't blame you for doing what you did.
But this new guy? Six years running E.
W.
Online does not a managing editor make.
Would you ever wanna come work with us? I mean, it'd be a huge fucking deal.
Chief political correspondent of the herald moves to Slugline? Did carly heath put you up to this? No.
Not at all.
But if you want, I can talk to her.
You think she would go for it? Honestly, I don't know.
She's got this sort of anti-establishment "fuck you" attitude.
Conventional news bores her.
But if you had something gritty to show I've got a story if you want it.
It's pretty fucking great.
You would give away a story? If you're not interested no, I'm interested.
If I seem a little hung over, it is because I am.
A lot hung over, actually.
God, I almost had a couple of months, and then last night, I Well, I don't remember much, so But anyway, here I am.
Keep coming back.
It works if you work it.
Thank you for sharing, Diane.
I'm Doug, and I'm an alcoholic.
Hi, Doug.
One of the things I do for a living is count.
I count votes.
Yeas, nays, neutrals, abstaining.
And I'm good at it.
But the most important count I do has nothing to do with work.
It's the number of days since April 4, 1999.
As of this morning, that's 5,185.
The bigger that number gets, the more it frightens me, because I know all it takes is one drink to go back to zero.
Most people see fear as a weakness.
It can be.
Sometimes for my job, I have to put fear in other people.
I know that's not right.
But if I'm honest, like the fourth step asks us to be, I have to be ruthless, because failure is not an option.
The same goes for my sobriety.
I have to be ruthless with myself.
I have to use my fear.
It makes me stronger.
Like everyone in this room, I can't control who I am.
But I can control the zero.
Fuck the zero.
Thanks for sharing.
It works if you work it.
Who would like to share next? - Was he at the meeting? - He was.
I tried to find him afterwards, but he was gone before I could catch up with him.
- Did he say anything? - No.
He never shares.
He looked preoccupied.
- You think he'll show up at the house today? - I have no idea.
He's not answering my calls.
Mine neither.
Anything else I need to know? I hear silence.
I don't like that sound.
Something came up.
I'm handling it.
- Something serious? - Serious but solvable.
- Do I wanna know more? - I don't think you do.
We'll be okay.
I might have to involve Nancy.
I'm hoping I won't have to.
But if I do, she'll have no knowledge of anything damaging.
All right.
Use your best judgment.
Of course, sir.
I've gotta go.
Miss Gallagher? Can the congressman have a moment? Things are they're complicated.
I realize that, but he truly needs you.
I don't know what I could say to him.
I think just showing up would do him a world of good.
Today is tough.
The speaker has a full schedule look, I already spoke to Bob, and he said he'd be fine if you took the rest of the day off.
In fact, he said he'd be fine if you wanted to take - the next six months off.
- What? I want you to be deputy campaign manager.
You work under Nash Aarons.
No.
I spent years being Peter's crutch.
If you just want me there well, of course we want you there to help, but not as a crutch.
Peter is a talented young man with a lot of potential.
He knows this, but he needs to hear it from someone other than me.
Someone he truly cares about.
I'm sorry.
This is just a lot right now.
Well, you don't have to make a decision now, but at least talk to Peter.
I mean, there's no harm in that, now, is there? Ten grand.
We divert it from your campaign accounts.
- We itemize it so it looks like - Wait.
You want me to pay for this? Use Frank's reelection fund.
Commissioner, the majority of the money that you've raised has come from people we've sent your way.
And you sent them because I sprung your boy Russo in the first place.
We're even.
I don't owe you shit.
There's a girl in trouble.
Let's help her out.
- Not my problem.
- It could be.
We put her back on the streets, there's no telling what she could do.
I'm a hell of a lot more afraid of the U.
S.
attorney than I am of some hooker.
This is a very inexpensive insurance policy.
I already broke the law once, Doug.
There's no fucking way I'm gonna mess with campaign finance regulations.
I don't even wanna be hearing this shit.
Funeral for the former ambassador of Japan tomorrow at 9:30, followed by a luncheon for the national board of directors for the girl scouts of America.
- Mr.
President.
- Jim.
After that, you've got a meet and greet with the finalist I'll catch up with you in a minute.
This way, sir.
Hi.
Hey.
What are you doing here? The congressman wanted me to come over.
- Why? - He wants me to work for your campaign.
- Deputy Manager.
- Frank! He said you're having some doubts.
I was just about to tell him that I decided not to run.
Oh.
Oh.
Okay.
Um, if you've made up your mind, then I should probably get going.
Did he tell you about the whole plan? About coming clean? Yeah, he did.
I have Kevin and Sarah to think about.
- Everyone has a past.
- Not like mine.
You don't know half the things I've done, Christina.
My kids read.
Their friends read.
I can't take that chance.
Look, if you don't wanna run, then you shouldn't.
I do wanna run.
I wouldn't have let it go this far if I didn't want it.
Then maybe it's a good thing confronting your past, even for your kids.
They're a lot stronger than you give them credit for.
Look, if Underwood, if the D.
N.
C.
, if they all think you can do it, then I don't care what they think.
I care what you think.
I think you'd be great.
- So, she really wants this? - That's the impression I got.
What about ego? I don't need to be dealing with a diva.
She's not a diva, she's an award-winning journalist with 15 years' experience.
You told me she treated you like shit.
There was some friction.
So why are you going to bat for her? Don't we want to work with the best people? Plus, it'd be big for the site.
The herald's senior political writer? Sure, but she's so old guard.
Everything's by the book.
- There's no bite to it.
- She told me about a profile she's working on.
- It's got serious bite.
- What is it? She can tell you herself.
You should talk to her.
Shh, shh, shh, shh.
Here's the deal.
My children stay out of the limelight.
No photo ops, no press.
We wouldn't dream of it.
Okay.
Let's do this.
Sit down.
- Where you from? - Outside of Lynchburg.
- Virginia? - Yeah.
- Are your parents still living there? - No.
I can't.
If I find a place for you to stay for a while, can I count on you to be smart? - What kind of place? - A nice place.
A safe place until we can figure out something permanent.
But I need to know that you won't pull anything like this again.
Promise me.
I promise.
Look at me when you say it.
I promise you.
How you doing on money? I don't have enough for tomorrow.
What are you doing? - I thought you wanted me to - You said you were done with that.
I'll be in touch.
If you own up to some of the shenanigans, sweep the rest under the rug, you might have a shot.
How much do we have to sweep under? Well, the kid had a talent for covering his tracks.
I've highlighted all the items I think he should admit to.
The rest I wouldn't mention.
It's a lot not to talk about.
- I need your help with something.
- Right now? - Yes.
- Is it important? Because you told me I could leave early this weekend to go visit my daughter down in Virginia.
You have a guest room in your house, right? Well, it's Mary's old room, but, yes.
I need you to put someone up for a while.
A young woman.
- What? Who? - Her name is Rachel.
I can't tell you anymore than that.
I don't understand.
Why do you need no questions, Nancy.
I just need you to do this for me.
I wouldn't be asking if it weren't serious.
Put up for how long? I don't know.
It could be a while.
I'm supposed to put up a complete stranger and not ask any questions? Nancy, please.
You're the only person I can trust.
Is something illegal going on? No.
She's just a girl in trouble who needs a place to stay.
- We have to be discreet.
- Can I at least meet her first? I need to know now.
Okay, I guess.
Thank you.
There's no catch, Larry.
Your district gets over 20 million if the numbers hold.
And most of the money is earmarked for economic development, not research.
That's great, but I need more than your support.
I need you to be a sponsor.
Fantastic, Larry.
Great.
I'll put you down.
You too.
Bye.
So that just leaves Clayburn and Price? - With Jennings on the fence.
- And I know Roger.
I'll call him.
And I'll track down these other two over the weekend.
Really good work today, Peter.
Do you know where I put my purse? - It's right here.
- Oh.
Did you make those? I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to pry.
Oh, this? I've been fooling around with it a little bit.
Can I see? Sarah learned how to make these birds in her art class.
Then she taught it to Kevin, and they got obsessed, and there were little pieces of paper all over the apartment.
- Do you wanna take them for the kids? - Oh, no.
I can't.
Oh, please.
I'll just throw them out eventually.
Thank you.
They'll love them.
So you should bring the kids by the house sometime so I can meet them.
Kevin and Frank can play the video games.
- He told you that? - I was a little surprised, I have to admit.
If anybody knew he came home every day to - it's embarrassing.
- There's worse secrets to have.
Yeah, there are, I suppose.
I'll call you Monday after I talk to Clayburn and Price.
Okay, great.
Have a good weekend, Peter.
You too.
I had Linda talk to the Vice President.
- He'll keep his nose out of it.
- I appreciate that.
He's a good man, but this is a very delicate moment in the campaign.
- You start spreading doubts, and - He's a pain in the ass.
We all know it.
You don't have to mince words, Frank.
I have to say, sir, the Vice President has a point.
I'm not 100% sold on Russo.
Do we really wanna go with someone this untested? - Frank? - We're grooming him, sir.
- When do you announce? - Next month.
- That's not enough time.
- What do you see in him? I was wondering the same thing.
There's not that much to see.
What I see is a recovering alcoholic with a history of drug abuse.
- What? - Excuse me, Frank? But he's clean now.
Has been for a year.
This is a redemption story, Mr.
President.
This is a bright young man who's put his life back on track.
Now he wants to help put Pennsylvania back on track.
- Drugs, Frank? - People love an underdog, Linda, and people love someone who stands up after they've fallen.
Combine those two, it's a very powerful narrative.
All of our polling indicates this is gonna work.
You want us to endorse someone with a history of substance abuse? Let us get his story out there and watch it connect with the voters.
All I care about is a win, Frank.
And I believe Russo is our best chance.
This is not a hail Mary, Mr.
President, - this is a well-thought-out game plan.
- Mr.
President I realize that I sometimes think out of the box, but the last time I did, we signed an education bill.
All right.
We won't stand in your way.
- But if it backfires, Frank - I'll guide Peter every step along the way.
We will not disappoint you, Mr.
President.
Okay.
Thank you, sir.
Linda.
I didn't plan on telling him so much so soon, but if I didn't, Linda would've swayed him.
There's no better way to overpower a trickle of doubt than with a flood of naked truth.
This is why the education bill was so important.
It bought me influence precisely when I needed it most.
How long have you been drinking? A long time.
Since I was a kid.
How old were you when you had your first drink? - Nine.
- Nine years old? Yeah.
My dad gave me a beer for my ninth birthday.
When did you first start using drugs? I won't go into too many specifics other than to say I had a few minor brushes with marijuana and cocaine in the past but not recently, and only a handful of times.
No other drugs besides marijuana and cocaine? No.
Under what circumstances? Occasional social gatherings.
That's the most I'll say.
Ever while you were in public office? No.
Never.
My chief problem was alcohol.
And you've been sober how long now? - A little over a year.
- And what made you want to get sober? Two things.
My children, whom I love more than anything else in the world, and my renewed faith in God.
Zoe.
Lucas.
I was just in the neighborhood, and I thought No.
That's a lie.
I was at the bar around the corner.
The one with the, uh and I remembered that time that I dropped you off after work.
I knew it was This block.
And I, uh, buzzed, and then I waited - you're wasted.
- I'm pretty wasted.
Do you wanna know a deep, dark secret? Now we don't work together Anymore.
Lucas I'm really flattered.
But I'm just not in a place where I'm even thinking romantically right now.
I'm sorry.
I, uh Yeah.
Hey, hey! You want me to pull up now, sir? I still have my key.
I'll be in the kitchen if you need anything.
Thank you.
Hey, I got us wine, but I can't find a corkscrew anywhere.
Give it to me.
I need a pen.
- The pen the President gave you? - That'll work.
Did you talk to Ms.
Skorsky? I did.
She said it was intense.
I think Carly's gonna offer her a job at Slugline.
- Was that your doing? - Janine expressed interest.
I took the next step.
Well done.
Always good to be owed favors.
I was wondering.
Do you ever think about my age? No.
Does my age bother you? You must have other lovers men that are younger than me.
- No.
- Not that I would mind.
I am married, after all.
I don't have time for other lovers.
Mm.
Mm.
Shit.
It's turned.
Give me that.
Mm.
You could've just stepped on it.
I have asked the super to get an exterminator in here, and he won't do it.
So anytime I see a cockroach or a spider, or whatever, I try and trap it, and then I leave it by his door.
You really ought to get your parents to let you borrow some money.
Then you wouldn't have to live in the third world.
I would never take money from them.
Because they don't have it, or because you don't want it.
Because I don't want it.
It's father's day, you know.
It is? You should call your father.
I'll call him tomorrow.
Tomorrow you'll be the daughter that forgot father's day instead of the one who remembered.
Go ahead.
Call him.
Hey, dad.
Sorry it's so late.
'Cause you weren't home the last time I called her.
There's so little she'll ever reveal to me or I to her.
I bet her father knows even less.
I'm sure she's speaking half an octave higher.
Same voice she had when she was 16.
Telling him all about her new job, how much she misses him, and sorry she didn't send a card.
Telling him everything but the truth.
Just like she wouldn't tell me about that young man downstairs.
I'm calling now, all right? Don't make me feel bad about it.
It was the best thing that could've happened.
I didn't fit in there.
I've been called worse, dad.
There's a value in having secrets.
Creatures like myself, like Claire, like Zoe we wouldn't be ourselves without them.
But Peter Russo, on the other hand he's trapped by his secrets.
What I'm trying to do is give him the opportunity to set himself free.
I don't know.
I don't know yet.
After all, we are nothing more or less than what we choose to reveal.
What I am to Claire is not what I am to Zoe, just as Zoe is not to me what she is to her father.
Probably Thanksgiving.
'Cause I don't think I can make it back before then.
Okay.
I'll try.
I said I'll try.
For Christmas.
Uh no.
Mm-mm.
No.
I'm not seeing anyone right now.
I don't feel like it.
Because I'm not interested in that.
I would tell you, dad.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Okay.
Don't be worried about me.
I'm fine.
Yeah.
Dad, I'm in I'm in a really great place right now.
I'm gonna try.
I'm gonna try to come, okay? Happy Father's Day.
Aren't you gonna wish me a happy Father's Day? You don't have any children.
Don't I?

2 Control stacked, energy-efficient.
Now, mind you, the whole collection could probably fit on a Kindle, but at least the cadets will have another place to get out of the rain.
Did you have any input on the design? I approved the blueprints.
If something's gonna have my name on it, I want to make damn sure they build it right.
I think my husband fancies himself a bit of an architect.
Well, Jefferson designed Monticello.
And he also fucked his slaves.
Luckily, I don't have any, so that particular temptation hasn't presented itself.
The Sentinel South Carolina's premiere military college.
They taught me the values of honor, duty, and respect.
They also hazed me, tried to break me, and, senior year, nearly expelled me when I volunteered for a Senate Race and my studies suffered.
But that didn't stop them from soliciting a hefty sum for their new library How quickly poor grades are forgotten in the shadow of power and wealth.
Your drink is only about half as full as it should be, Frank.
Are you trying to get me drunk? Drunk, passed out in the gutter, so I can steal your wife.
Did you get the email about the riflemen? - What email? - From my office about the invitations.
I was hoping they would be here.
I'll check the list, but I don't remember any email.
Oh, not a problem.
I was just wondering.
Well, shit, Frank, I'm sorry.
Don't you sweat it for a second.
In fact, here's how you can make it up to me freshen my drink.
That I can do.
Congratulations, Congressman.
Remy.
Nice to see you here.
Gerry and all the folks at Sancorp give you their regards.
Well, I'm sorry they couldn't make it.
Where's Claire? Oh, she's here somewhere, fending off admirers.
Sancorp was very disappointed she turned down their donation.
I can imagine.
And they're also concerned about Peter Russo running for Governor.
Now, how do you know about that? Three quarters of Pennsylvania sits on top of the Marcellus Shale.
If I can't find out who's running for governor, I don't deserve a dime of what they're paying me.
This watershed bill Russo sponsors places a lot of restrictions on drilling.
Remy, congress is in recess, and this weekend is not about work.
I apologize.
You are absolutely right.
Is Sancorp your only account? I have plenty.
But my other clients didn't pay for your library or my plane ticket down here.
It's a nice little junket for you.
I do hope you're taking in the sights.
This isn't my first trip to Charleston.
But I'll bet it's your first time not as my press secretary.
It is.
Who else do you have coming in? I didn't want to pack tonight too much.
You know, these receptions are usually just for the money people like yourself.
Normally, this is where I would start to drone on about the Sentinel's history, its philosophy, its yadda, yadda, yadda.
But I'm going to save that for my big speech tomorrow, and that way I'm not gonna bore y'all to tears twice.
Tonight we're going to turn it over to a man who needs no introduction, because we all know what a son of a bitch he is.
Seriously, though, Frank Underwood exemplifies all the virtues we try to instill in our graduates.
We're so proud to call you an alumnus, Frank, and to have your name as a permanent fixture on our campus.
Congressman Frank Underwood! Thank you, president Higgins.
I first want to thank Sancorp industries for providing the funds to make the library possible.
When I matriculated here as a young cadet, Jimmy Carter had just been elected president.
After I graduated, I wished that I could have had another four years, just like Jimmy.
Well, neither of us got our wish.
But I left this campus with fond memories.
The first time I ever Oh, I wish I was in the land of cotton Old times there are not forgotten Look away, look away, look away I got your damn email.
I wish I was in Dixie Hooray, hooray In dixieland, I'll take my stand To live and die in Dixie - Away - Away - Away - Away Away down South in Dixie Away, away Away down South in Dixie From the halls of Montezuma To the shores of Tripoli We will fight our country's battles the honey child, when she stepped out in the trying on the bra on housewives of Atlanta, and I teased you about that, and I said i called it the honey child, because she's the honey child now.
Anyway, here's the thing How long has that light been like that? I don't know.
A month, maybe.
And nobody's come to fix it? Nobody don't fix nothing around here.
Well, have you asked? Shh.
I'm watching.
Leave it alone.
I'm used to it now.
Ohh Better, huh? Now it's too dark.
What did you do that for? Listen, ma, I'm running for Governor.
I'm going to announce it in a few days.
That's why I came up to Philly.
There's a community meeting tomorrow.
I'm going to talk to the shipbuilders about a plan to bring their jobs back so they'll support me in the election.
I don't know nothing about that stuff.
It's over my head.
Okay, listen, there's going to be some stories coming out about me in the news about my past.
I just wanted to give you a heads-up so it doesn't catch you off guard.
I don't watch the news no more.
A bunch of garbage.
You want to see some pictures of Kevin and Sarah? Too dark to look at pictures.
No, no, no.
It's on my phone.
You don't need any get it away from me.
I hate those things.
Brain cancer.
I'm a crafter, and I have a hot glue gun, and I can very well do this my It wasn't just up the stairs.
It was up three flights of stairs, in the science building.
And Guckenheimer, what he did "well, you look lovely today, Mrs.
Governor.
" And the thing took a dump.
Right.
And they couldn't get it back you can get a cow up three flights of stairs, but you can't get it down.
And that's why Andy said "who wants steak for dinner?" How are you boys doing? - We're good.
- You think I'm fat? - Take the Fifth.
Seriously, Phil, here, thinks I got fat with old age.
Ah, you're a big man with an even bigger heart.
There you go.
She said you're chubby.
Frank, I'm going to go back to the hotel.
Okay? Have fun.
- I love this woman.
- Yeah, she don't let him get into too much trouble.
They'll have grounds for impeachment when we're done with him.
Better get another drink before they close up.
You're coming with me to help carry them.
You're gonna be a waiter tonight.
Lazy-ass cadet.
Lazy-ass cadet.
Yeah, hold on a second there, partner.
You had no idea we were coming? Complete surprise.
I thought Higgins might have no, he played it perfectly.
Made me think you weren't coming at all.
Are you kidding? We wouldn't have missed it for the world.
On the library, are they going to put "Frank" or "Francis"? Francis.
It's the same as the name above the door in my office in the Capitol.
"Francis" is better for libraries.
"Frank" is better for bumper stickers.
I got a few of those.
Does anybody ever actually call you Francis? Claire does.
She's the only one.
She seems like a real prize.
She is.
Bar was already shut down, but look what I scored.
Hi, Caroline.
What do you want? Is Paul around? Paul? Did you invite this man? Answer me.
Did you invite him? What are you talking about? Caroline, stop! No, you're not going to stop me.
Paul? You got a minute to talk? There's nothing to talk about.
I want to apologize for when I saw you last time in Washington, how I treated you.
Is that it? And I want to talk about the shipyard.
I got a plan to fix it.
You don't want everything going into the roth ira.
I'll set you up with a nice, diversified package.
Low-risk, high-yield.
I think Claire and I have things pretty well under control.
If I brought a senior U.
S.
congressman into the fund, hoo hoo hoo, that would really up my stock in the company.
What are you all gabbing about back there? We're talking about the old library.
Yeah, what's happening to it? They gonna tear it down? I don't know.
They could gut it.
They could turn it into a student center.
Hey.
We should sneak in there.
Like we used to.
- I'm game.
- Do it.
Hell, why not? That's it.
There you go.
That's it.
Shh.
It's a library.
This this the the Sentinel The association had about 3 million saved up in reserve for emergencies.
Split that up between it's nothing.
A couple of weeks' groceries.
There's a bill I'm working on.
Major federal funds going towards public parks, green commercial spaces, cleaning up waste sites.
That's construction jobs, park management, retail - how many? - 5,000 jobs.
That's not even half.
It's a start.
- How soon? - A year, maybe two.
Two fucking years? What are we supposed to do until then? - Listen, there's a community meeting tomorrow.
- I heard.
I'm gonna go over everything in detail.
- You gonna be there? - Wasn't planning on it.
I'd like you to be there.
Everybody respects you.
Want me to vouch for you? Listen, I'm gonna tell you something that only a handful of people know.
I'm running for Governor.
I announce soon.
But I need the association behind me before I do that.
Now, I know I let you down with the shipyard.
But if I win a governor's race, I can get everything back on track.
You show up on my doorstep asking for my forgiveness.
Now you want me to be your lapdog after I lost my fucking job? This watershed bill is just the beginning.
If I'm governor, there's so much I can do.
It's bullshit.
You just want to use me.
It's not like that.
Yeah.
It's exactly like that.
Jesus Christ, Pete.
You fucking politicians.
Paul.
Claire.
I didn't realize you and Frank were staying here.
We always stay here when we're in Charleston.
You know that, Remy.
The '08 campaign.
I promise it was a coincidence my assistant booked it.
Is, uh, Frank around? He's not.
He's off cavorting with old classmates.
Hmm.
You want to sit down and have a drink? They booked me the Bridal Suite.
There's champagne on ice.
My, my, you've grown very confident since you worked for Francis.
I've always been confident, Claire.
Oh, you never would have invited me upstairs.
Never had the Bridal Suite.
The staff always stayed in the best Western four blocks away.
Enjoy your champagne.
I wasn't suggesting anything more than a drink.
Weren't you? Purely being polite.
Good night, Remy.
The Bridal Suite's on the top floor at the end of the hallway, if you change your mind.
Good night, Claire.
I know a girl upon a hill I know a girl all dressed in pink - She made my - Fingers stink Sound off, oo-wah Make it loud Here you go.
Hey, Kenny, I think you got a little too big for this.
I think the hole got a lot smaller.
Don't let a little girth stop you.
Yeah.
Here it is.
Look, look, look.
Oh, oh, you found it, killer.
Oh, wow, look at that.
Oh, Shenandoah I long to hear you Far away You rolling river Oh, Shenandoah Just to be near you Far away Around the way Cross the wide Missouri Hey.
Good, and you? Oh, I'm in Charleston, actually.
Mm-hmm.
What are you doing here? I thought I'd surprise you.
Surprise.
Come on.
Let me show you where I went through puberty.
I can totally see you here at 16.
Oh.
Got in some trouble on this bed, huh? Woke up the whole block.
Hey, how'd it go with Paul? He told me to fuck off.
Which is what my mother told me, in her own special way.
Am I going to meet her? You don't want to meet her.
I just wanted to stop by, say hey, see her face.
Christina, it was really sweet of you to come up here.
Seriously, I'm officially convinced you're the most amazing woman I've ever been with, but I meant it when I said I wanted to take this trip alone.
This thing tomorrow isn't going to be pleasant.
Which is why I came to be here for you.
Moral support.
I know these people.
They're going to lay into me big time.
Tomorrow's an important day for the campaign.
Don't fight me on this.
Okay.
So do I get a hotel? Do I stay here? Come on.
Don't be like that.
A hotel would be more comfortable.
But it would be a waste of valuable campaign funds.
Oh, campaign funds.
You see that crack up in the ceiling? Mm-hmm.
I used to fall asleep staring at it every night.
I know every inch and curve.
It's dark in here.
I'm scared.
- Whoa, whoa.
- Hey, hey, hey.
Be fucking careful, man! Let there be light! What were you thinking about? How come you and Frank have never had kids? You've never had kids.
Yeah, but I'm not married.
Answer the question.
We just decided not to.
There wasn't some big conversation.
I think you're lying.
Think whatever you want.
You've honestly never thought about it? I mean, yeah, maybe, once or twice.
I mean, I don't feel there's some void.
I'm perfectly happy without.
What about you? Can you imagine me wiping a baby's ass and changing nappies? No, I can't.
Actually, yes, I just did.
I'm gonna have to get off the phone.
You've ruined everything.
Well, we really should get off.
It's been Over an hour, I think.
Okay.
- Go on then.
- I'm hanging up right now.
No, I am.
Come on.
Don't quit on me.
Oh, I lost count.
Don't be don't quit.
Oh oh, God! Oh, you win.
Oh, but it's not a fair fight.
You run a rafting company.
I sit behind a desk all day.
Oh, I'd love to see your ass with a paddle, bouncing through a class-four rapid.
If I can whip congress into submission, I'm not afraid of a little white water.
You can't tame a rapid, Frank.
My heart is beating so fast If I have a heart attack, it's your fault.
Mine too.
Here.
I need another drink.
Ugh.
I think I'll have another too.
Yeah.
Mm.
Mm.
Don't bogart that.
Do you think this place made us? How do you mean? When I walked on campus today, I wondered, "did it mean anything? "If it's just a place we spent four years of our lives or was there more?" I don't know.
I do know you were always the guy that was gonna get a building named after him.
I knew that the moment I saw you cuss out the drill sergeant when we were knobs.
The library is a sham.
Higgins asked me a favor.
I asked someone else a favor.
They slapped my name on it.
Politics.
Like everything else.
Not everybody gets asked those favors.
Or knows how to deliver on 'em.
Oh, in 50 years they'll just replace it with something else.
Just like they're doing with this for mine.
You still built something.
However long it lasts.
The library doesn't matter.
But I want to think this place did.
I think it meant a lot to us.
Then.
And what about us? Honestly, I haven't really thought about it that much.
It's a long time ago.
We were so close.
Like brothers.
More than brothers.
We were kids, Frank.
We messed around a couple of times.
I was so drawn to you.
I could always make you laugh.
How did we lose touch? You went to law school.
I joined the army.
You ran for congress, I i moved to Colorado.
I got children older than we were back then.
Do you have anyone, Frank? I have Claire.
Besides Claire.
I have.
From time to time.
If I want someone, I want them.
It's attraction.
Made me happy to make you happy, Frank.
Didn't see any harm in it.
You know why I love rafting? When you're on the water, all you're thinking about is what's right in front of you.
Everything is in the moment.
I don't really have time to think about the past.
You meant something to me.
I believe that.
All gone.
I don't feel so well.
You gonna be sick? No.
No, I just Take a break.
Can we just take a For a little bit? Until I feel better.
Take as long as you like.
I got nowhere to go.
It's almost 7:00.
I don't even wanna sleep.
Come on.
One Two Three Four One, two, three, four, we are the sentinel.
- Yes.
- 30% public parks.
- Yep.
- 45% shopping offices.
Yes.
You going? Is it required? I don't think so.
Who is he that they're naming the place after? Some guy who went here.
I think he's dead.
We had to set up the chairs yesterday.
It was hot as shit.
That sucks.
I'm gonna try to get some shut-eye before the ceremony.
- I'll see you all later? - Later it is.
Frank, before I forget, here's my card.
So your money manager can call me.
Get some rest.
Claire.
You look like you're hurting.
It was an all-nighter.
- Was it fun at least? - It was fun.
I need to get some shut-eye.
Remy's staying here.
He harassing you about the donation? Oh, nothing I can't handle.
Go get some rest.
- Were you good? - Not bad.
I mean, I wasn't a starter, but I had my time on the court.
I think you look sexier now all grown up.
Congressman? We're ready for you.
You said two years.
I think two years is a realistic estimate.
- If it passes at all.
- Which I think it will.
You think or you know? I can't predict 100%, but I'm confident it will.
You think, you're confident, you can't predict 100%.
How does any of that help us? I'll tell you something.
I am 100% unable to pay my mortgage right now.
I'm 100% unable to buy my kids school supplies.
We supposed to live off my husband's disability? There'll be paid training programs available.
How much will they pay? Uh, granted, it's less than you made at the shipyard.
- So how much? - It's about $6 an hour.
Jesus Christ.
That's not even minimum wage.
Horseshit! You have to see it as an investment.
The training programs are a valuable resource.
You're not getting it.
I can't afford to make investments.
Six dollars an hour puts my family on the street.
What do you want me to work? Five jobs? If you get a part-time job, that and the training programs do you wanna know what I think? I think you sit around in Washington coming up with all sorts of fancy numbers and solutions that look good on paper.
But that doesn't cut it for the rest of us.
You said you had our backs, you lying piece of shit! We don't eat paper for dinner.
You can't put a paper roof over your head.
When we all voted for you, I didn't think that every one of those votes was another nail in our own coffin.
Everybody just sit down for ten minutes.
We can go over this proposal point by point and you can get the information that you need to get the resources that you want.
It's like they don't want to find a solution.
They're scared.
I understand that they're scared, but that doesn't mean they can't listen.
You don't know these people, Christina.
I worked in your office for three years.
I spoke to them.
I took their calls.
I replied to their emails.
You didn't grow up with them.
I don't need to grow up hand to mouth to empathize with the fact that they're not interested in empathy.
The house keys are in my jacket.
I'll call you.
- Peter.
- I said I'll call you.
Do your homework.
Sister Mary Joseph.
You didn't do it.
Don't lie to me.
I used to use the same ploy with my parents.
Nah, baloney.
We do the homework and then we eat.
All right, who's hungry? What do you guys want? Hamburgers.
You know mommy makes macaroni No, pizza.
No pizza.
You guys can eat that every sweetheart, take the kids upstairs.
How'd you get in here? You still keep the spare key behind the loose brick on the porch.
You break into my house? You scare my kids like that? We gotta talk, Paul.
We talked last night.
Now get out.
I can convince these people, but I need your help.
- Leave my house.
- Sit down.
I don't wanna have to hurt you with my children upstairs, petey.
Then help me.
This is your last chance.
I'm not going anywhere.
Ugh! Get back upstairs! What are we doing? I don't wanna fight you, petey.
I don't wanna fight you either.
I will.
But we don't have to.
What do you want me to do? You elected me to represent you, but I couldn't forestall the inevitable.
The shipyard was closing.
If not this year, then next.
Or the year after.
We all know that.
I could have lied to you.
I could have pretended to do more.
But I don't believe about living in the past.
I only care about the future.
Here's another truth that's gonna be hard to swallow.
I'm all you've got.
Nobody in Washington gives a fuck about you.
No one.
He's right.
Whatever you think of petey, we either go with him or we got nothin'.
Now, does what I'm offering you come anywhere near what you want or deserve? No.
But you gotta open your eyes and take what's in front of you.
We can build on that.
Then 15,000.
Not in the snap of a finger, but faster than doing nothing will.
Can I count on all of you? All right, I'll take that as a yes.
We'll need your contact information so we can send you materials to share with your friends.
Now, let's talk about the way the money's gonna get phased in.
It's gonna happen in six stages.
Stage one Oh say does that star-spangled Banner yet wave For the land of the free And the home of the brave Left face.
Forward march.
Francis Underwood's career.
Harvard law degree.
One of the youngest state legislators in the history of South Carolina.
A 22-year veteran of the U.
S.
Congress.
House majority whip.
Speaks volumes about the values young people learn here at the sentinel.
Values like honor, duty, discipline, like sacrifice, service, and respect.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Francis J.
Underwood library.
Congressman? Thank you.
I wrote a speech.
But I'm not gonna read it.
Nothing is permanent.
Not even this building.
I don't mean to sound ungrateful.
I am very grateful.
I'm deeply honored.
And I am I'm very moved.
I had the good fortune of spending most of this weekend with a group of friends.
Friends I haven't seen in a very long time.
Friends I made here.
Most of you young cadets probably, uh, don't know who I am.
A politician, a name, a few accomplishments.
But I don't blame you.
When I was your age, why, I didn't care much for what men in gray hair did or what they had to say.
I I wish I could describe Harmony.
That's the word that stuck in my mind.
Harmony.
It's not about what's lasting or permanent.
It is about individual voices coming together.
For a moment.
And that moment lasts The length of a breath.
That's what I think about my time here.
You'll have to forgive me.
I had more than a few whiskeys last night.
You know, when I was a cadet, we could drink all night and then get up in the morning and march 20 Miles, but these days I'm lucky I got up these three steps.
I wanna thank you very much.
This is a great honor.
I wanna thank president Higgins and of course the love of my life, Claire.
Thank you all very much.
- You okay? - Yes.
Nurse Madison, please pick up line two.
Hi, ma.
This is Christina.
I told you about her yesterday.
- Hi, Mrs.
Russo.
- Hey.
We just came by to say goodbye.
We have to catch a train in about an hour.
Okay.
They still haven't fixed that light? Uh-uh.
Things went well today.
I think the folks in the yard are gonna get behind me.
Peter did a great job.
Hand me that blanket.
The A.
C.
in here is nuts.
What happened to your hand? I got in a fight.
Did you win? Yeah, I guess I did.
That's my Peter.
So you're fucking my son.
Lighten up.
I'm just messing with you.
Excuse me.
Yeah.
Hold on a second.
Yeah? Yeah, my mother's in room 409.
She has a light out that needs to be replaced.
All right.
I'll take care of it.
Okay, thanks.
Look, babe, if you put that pink thing on, I'm telling you Hold on.
What is it? The light in my mother's room.
I told you I'll take care of it later.
No, you'll take care of it now.
I gotta go.
And turn the A.
C.
down while you're in there too.
Yes, sir.
Thank you very much.
You're very welcome, sir.
Take care of yourself.
I'm real proud of you, Frank.
I hate to admit it, but I feel the same.
Well, having all you here was what made it special.
Now you stay in touch.
- Will do.
- See ya, buddy.
Beautiful ceremony, Frank.
Yeah, they did a good job.
Your speech.
I'm glad I was here for that.
Me too.
You should come out to Salida sometime.
I'll take you out on the Arkansas river.
- I should do that.
- Any time you want.
Yep.
All right.
Francis? Edward has the car ready.
I'll be right there.
Take your time.
You hear from Peter? Looks like the shipbuilders are on board.
Tomorrow morning we start working on his draft - for his announcement speech.
- Got it.
And I want the brief on the mock-up for the watershed bill.
I got that with me.
Ride with me to the airport.
We'll go through it in the car.
When the enemy attacked, you ran away.
That's treason.
Now it's time to splatter your brains everywhere.
Please! Please, don't kill me! Shut up! Die like a man! But I have a wife and family.
That's what happens to cowards.
Hey, shh, shh, shh! You have to keep it down.
- There's an important meeting going on.
- Sorry.
I'll set you up in the copy room.
You won't be in the way there.
This is gonna be a close vote.
Most of your colleagues are not gonna wanna spend this amount of money in just 25 districts.
Try persuasion first.
Talking points are in your packets.
And if you want more detailed information research, statistics you can contact Gillian or myself.
And when it comes to doling out favors, talk to Doug.
If favors don't work, come to me directly.
Peter.
I'll be campaigning in Pennsylvania.
All my events this week will be in counties within the watershed, so I'll be working the media angle.
But if you need me to get on the phone with anybody, reach out to Christina.
She'll work it into my schedule.
I have to say, Frank, $200 million is going to be a hard sell.
The natural gas lobby's already putting up a big fight.
We need to make this about jobs.
But the drilling industry can offer far more jobs than this bill can.
This bill doesn't threaten those jobs, it just makes sure the drilling is done responsibly.
It adds more jobs on top of that.
I've already been approached by Sancorp with reelection funds.
I have too.
They offered me a donation package from eight different drilling companies.
- Remy Danton? - Yep.
How many of you been approached by Remy? Look, I know it's not easy to turn down money.
But if the Republicans control redistricting in Pennsylvania, we lose the house next election, and all of you lose your committee chairmanships.
This is a feather that we need in Peter's hat.
A loss on this bill endangers his chance of winning, and we are fighting to keep our majority here.
Any other concerns? I want a first vote count by 4:00 tomorrow afternoon.
Thank you all very much.
It's brutal.
- That's a lot of sleeping on the bus.
- No sleeping.
That bus is the only place I can get work done.
You know, Francis did a big bus tour in '98, and the bus lost its brakes going down a hill, and we landed in a tobacco field.
He gets out of the car, knocks on the farmer's door, writes a check for all the damaged crops, and then borrows his pickup so he doesn't miss the next event.
And it was actually fun.
He was driving.
I was shotgun.
We had the whole staff in the flatbed.
We actually got there ten minutes early.
- I think I should be here to help drum up votes.
- Careful, sir.
It's very hot.
Look, you and the vice president will get national coverage.
That's gonna help us with the count.
I reached out to him.
He never got back to me.
I don't know if he even knows the talking points about the bill.
I don't think Jim wants to go.
He's doing it as a favor to the president and I, so it doesn't matter if he doesn't know the talking points.
People wanna see him be folksy, you know? So just humor him.
Show him some degree of - aagh! Aagh! - Oh, my God.
- Are you okay? - It was an accident.
Okay, it's time for us to go.
I'm so sorry.
It's all right.
I just need to run it under some cold water.
I'm not going to lie.
I despise children.
There.
I've said it.
You can't act like that in here.
- You have to be a big boy.
- I know.
Peter, we really need to get going.
We've already missed one flight because the meeting went over.
I booked us another one at 9:25, but - we have to drop the kids off at school.
- It's going to be really tight.
If we miss this plane, we have to cancel our first event.
Nancy, can you take them? I've gotta get packets ready for the lunchtime sub-caucuses.
Peter, I'd do it, but we have a meeting with Greenpeace in 20 minutes.
- I gotta get their rating on the bill.
- Where's their school? Connecticut and Q.
- Oh, I can take them.
- You sure? Yes.
It's on the way to my office.
This watershed act proves that once again the anti-capitalist agenda is alive and well in the Democratic party.
Let me show you what's really going on.
Here are the democrats eating up all of their soft science, "organically homegrown" propaganda that the eco-fanatics are force-feeding them.
And over here, at the tail end of all those jackasses, are middle-class Americans people who just want to work hard and rely on jobs in the drilling industry.
And what about the hypocrisy, folks? Does Peter Russo honestly have the gall to lecture us on the purity of our rivers when he has been polluting himself with chemicals for years? He's not just been eating grass, he's been smoking it.
It's the only major bill he's sponsored in six years.
I know, but they already have national coverage.
What's the angle? If it doesn't pass, I think he'll lose support from the shipbuilders' association.
So they lose support.
It's not that juicy.
They're a huge part of his get-out-the-vote effort in Philly.
It sounds like inside baseball.
Not if I get the vote count.
Black and white numbers.
Nobody has that.
But when I called the campaign, they stonewalled me.
Same thing in the whip's office.
Do you know anyone over there? In Underwood's office? No, I don't.
Nobody on staff? - Hmm-mm.
- Oh.
I just figured because you gave me the Russo profile.
No, that didn't come from them.
But Underwood organized the campaign.
I'm sorry.
I don't know anybody there.
Okay.
Hey, it's me.
I just wanted to fill you in on something.
I should be back home at 10:00.
Meet me there.
- Sarah made this one.
- It's a frog.
And I made this one.
Can you guess what it is? - A lobster? - No.
It's a scorpion.
They're for you.
For the ones you gave us.
Aw, they're beautiful.
But maybe you should bring them to school, no? For show-and-tell? Or give them to your friends.
No.
The other kids will just make fun of us.
Why? Everybody hates us at school.
They say dad's a crackhead and that we're crack babies.
I looked up "crack baby" on the computer.
I don't look like that.
Yeah, they say dad's gonna O.
D.
like Amy Winehouse.
Well, you tell them that your dad doesn't do that kind of thing anymore, right? Yeah, we do, but they don't believe us.
Did you try going to the teachers? We can't do that.
Everyone will just hate us even more.
Well, you can't worry about what other people think, right? I wish dad wasn't running for Governor.
- You ever been to allentown before? - I have not.
What do you think? Compared to New York, the parking is easier.
Finding a decent bagel, not so much.
We make up for it with the cream cheese.
- Shall we? - Ready when you are.
Your watershed bill.
You've ticked off the Republicans, oil, gas sometimes you gotta upset a few people to do the right thing.
Not just a few.
There's a sizable coalition that wants to see your bill fail, including environmentalists from your own party.
- Don't think the bill does enough.
- We wanted a passable bill.
That's why we aimed for middle ground do you actually care about the Delaware river? I don't sponsor legislation I don't care about.
Until recently, you hadn't sponsored any legislation at all.
I spent my time in congress focusing on things that were important to my constituents.
- The shipyard.
- Kept it open as long as I could.
Okay.
That's one thing.
What are the others? I'd love to provide you a list of all the things I've done in congress, but we've got 15 minutes your opponent has linked your inactivity to your fondness for single-malts.
I've been very open about my past, and I've done everything I can to overcome it in a responsible, permanent way.
And I preferred vodka to scotch.
You should get your facts straight.
Is your watershed act just a ploy to jump into the spotlight and pad your transcript while you apply for Governor school? It's real money.
It's real jobs.
And when the Delaware river is less polluted than it's been in 50 years it's holding up a real glass of its water and seeing how clear it is.
That's what my bus tour is about.
- The vice president is joining you later? - Correct.
Why has it taken him this long to endorse you? He didn't think I was worth it.
But then he heard I had a one-on-one with the New York Times, - and, boom, he was on board.
- I might print that.
The more of my words, the fewer of yours, the better off we'll both be.
If I didn't think you were such a liability to yourself, congressman, I might even like you.
If your circulation was as high as the wall street journal, I might like you back.
Hit me.
Next question.
I have to put up a fight, Frank.
Tell them they're wasting their money.
- It's gonna pass.
- Are you sure? When was the last time I got a count wrong? If you were certain, you wouldn't be trying to neutralize us.
Well, Sancorp has been good to me.
I'm just trying to do you and them a favor, Remy.
Then why propose the legislation in the first place? You must've known they would oppose it.
The regulatory restrictions are minimal.
There's a bigger battle here, Frank.
Sancorp is against any step toward regulation, no matter how small.
Russo's planted his feet on the wrong side of the fence.
How much are you giving his opponent? Check the F.
E.
C.
Filings.
How much are you actually giving? This is a ten-billion-dollar industry, Frank.
There's money to spend.
If the democrats lose Pennsylvania, you know what that means.
We don't want you to lose leadership, but that's up to you, not us.
You don't have the same kind of relationship with the Republicans that you have with me.
Then we'll adapt.
We both have votes to count.
Good luck.
You tell Sancorp they're being foolish.
I'm not gonna do that.
Well, then, you're being foolish.
Come on, Frank.
Let's not make this personal.
I can't compete with Sancorp's war chest.
My only option is asymmetrical To pick off the opposition one by one like a sniper in the woods.
There will come a time to put Remy in my crosshairs, but not right now.
As we used to say in Gaffney, never slap a man while he's chewing tobacco.
Congressman, how are you? I deeply appreciate you taking the time out of your schedule Hank, I need to eat.
See if you can muster up a club sandwich, extra bacon.
Fuck me.
Ta-da.
Thai cuisine again.
The green curry is for you, and the other green curry is for me.
I was actually just on my way out.
I bought you dinner.
You have to eat it.
Or at the very least, you have to watch me eat mine.
I'm gonna be late to meet someone.
- Who? Like a date? - A friend.
Oh, the mysterious fuck-buddy who you get all of your stories from? Lighten up.
I was just teasing.
Not that I would judge.
We've all done it.
I used to suck, screw, and jerk anything that moved just to get a story.
Really? Like who? You want dish? No.
It's just the Com director on Ben Schroeder's Senate Race.
A staffer in the defense department.
My very own White House intern.
He was a real blabbermouth when he wasn't eating me out.
Wow.
And I even had a fling with a congressman.
Which one? You tell me yours, and I'll tell you mine.
I've never been with any.
Oh, come on.
You're hot.
You're telling me that none of them have come on to you? I haven't really been in those circles.
You are now.
I guess I don't really give off that vibe.
Oh, you mean the slut vibe? Look, I don't do that shit anymore.
'Cause once word got out, it was like I hit a wall, and nobody took me seriously.
So, a piece of advice as far as career strategies go: It's not worth fucking your way to the middle.
Chopsticks or fork? Look, if you go, I am gonna have to eat both of these, and that is not cool.
No.
I'll eat with you.
Good.
Back home, meechum.
Sir.
Francis How's your hand? Fine.
You should change the bandage, no? Later.
I thought you were gonna be out late.
No.
- You seem upset.
- I'm not.
- What happened? - Nothing.
Can I get more than two words out of you? I'm just trying to relax.
Claire, I love you.
I love you too.
Did Zoe expect me to twiddle my thumbs until her arrival? Perhaps she's making the mistake thinking her time is as valuable as mine.
Proximity to power deludes some into believing they wield it.
I put an end to that sort of thinking before it begins.
And if I'm not mistaken, the last time I was in Tannersville, Buddy Corcharan pulled me aside and told me I was wasting my time, because the Republicans were gonna sweep Monroe County in a landslide.
Well, Buddy had to eat his hat and both his shoes when I won the county in a landslide.
And let me tell you, that man has big feet and an even bigger head, so that was quite a meal.
My daddy used to tell me a story about people who count their chickens before they hatched.
Although, to be fair, he probably didn't know what he was talking about, because he grew up in Pittsburgh.
And I certainly never saw a hen around my house, unless you count my mother.
- Do you want me to do something? - But, seriously, folks - No.
Let him talk.
- I do love this town I don't know if he's ever going to introduce you.
He will.
Just give him time.
It's been an hour .
We were supposed to leave for Carbondale ten minutes ago.
I can't interrupt him.
He's the Vice President.
We're not on the edge of Penn's Woods.
We need economic development flowcharts for the watershed bill sent over to Terry Womack's office.
- Hard copies, 20 of them.
- I'll do it right away.
How's everything going with Rachel? I think she's a little down in the dumps.
She got a waitressing job last week, and then they let her go.
- Why? - She wouldn't tell me.
All she said was her boss was a creep.
Thirty minutes ago, I received a text from Zoe.
She intends to apologize, no doubt.
I respect that she wants to atone in person, even though it's taken her over Janine Skorsky is digging into Peter Russo.
What in particular? The shipbuilders' association.
She have an angle? The watershed bill is a consolation prize for them losing their jobs.
That's not an unfair assessment.
She thinks if the bill fails to pass, they'll withdraw support.
Not an unfair speculation.
Well, I know how hard you've been working on his campaign, so I wanted to give you a heads-up.
Well, let me know if she expands her inquiry.
- Into what? - Anything you deem worth telling.
Well, can I throw her a bone? She might be more talkative if I have information for her.
- What sort of bone? - The vote count for the bill.
I don't have a vote count yet.
Should have a preliminary one this afternoon.
- You'll let me know? - As soon as I have something solid.
There's one more thing.
About last night oh, no need to apologize.
I'm sure you had a very good reason.
I do.
I think we should end it.
Not professionally, the other thing.
Why now? We have a really good working relationship.
I don't wanna overcomplicate that.
All right.
- You're okay with it? - Completely.
It's over.
And it won't change things in terms of our arrangement? Oh, please.
I don't punish people for making adult decisions.
Thank you, Francis.
She was never more than a faint blip on my radar.
We've served each other's purpose.
If she wants to be an adult, let her see how she can fly once she leaves the nest.
- Claire.
- Catherine.
Hi.
Thank you for fitting me in.
Oh, I can always find time for you and Frank.
Well, the reason I'm here is the C.
W.
I.
Has a large shipment of water filters stuck in South Sudan, and they've been in storage for the past four months, just sitting there, and the Sudanese government won't release the shipments through customs.
My deputy briefed me on the latest.
Right.
And I know that Francis spoke to you about this not too long ago, but lately we haven't heard much from the state department, so I was wondering if you could help.
We've done our best, Claire.
I put my top people on this.
The sudanese are just not responding.
Well, is there anything else we can do? There's over $200,000 worth of equipment.
I wish I could.
I know how important this is to you, but we're about to cut off diplomatic ties.
It's a directive straight from the president.
We can't ignore their human rights violations anymore.
What about back channels? Well, once we cut ties, I can't contact their government officially or unofficially.
Well, is there someone you could put me in touch with? I'm sorry, Claire.
My hands are tied.
I would move mountains for you and Frank, but I've done all I can.
Of course.
- Okay.
Good to see you.
- You too.
Congressman, you have a major bill going to the floor later this week.
- Are you optimistic it'll pass? - I'm very optimistic.
The Delaware river watershed act not only protects large portions of the state's freshwater resources, it also creates thousands of jobs.
I'm confident that my colleagues on the hill there's only one way to create jobs.
I did it during my administration.
The answer is tax credits for small businesses.
You've got to encourage self-starting entrepreneurs to start new ventures, - hire employees - But specifically, - about the watershed act - Small businesses, that's the solution.
Everything else is window dressing.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
Good night, Mr.
Vice-President.
Hello.
I need to talk about Matthews.
Yes.
I read the press reports.
He's not being very helpful, is he? He's doing more harm than good.
I want to ask him to leave.
Well, that wouldn't make for a very good story.
It's better than him torpedoing the whole bus tour.
Have you tried to talk to him? No, I wanted to ask your advice first.
Well, maybe there's a way to keep him on the tour and inspire his support.
We have fundamentally different views.
Well, look, you're not going to be able change his ideology, but dig deeper.
Jim is a proud man.
Tap into that pride.
I just wish he was gone.
Well, you do whatever you think best.
But whatever it is you decide, be firm and stand up for yourself.
He'll respond to that at least.
And call me back if you need anything.
What was the reason he gave you? Were you messing up? No.
The head waiter said I was doing a really good job.
He even started letting me take my own tables on the second day.
And then the manager what's his name? Leon.
He propositioned you? Called me into his office, said couldn't afford to start taking anyone new on, even part-time.
Put his hand on my knee, said he might be able to make an expectation.
So he started sliding his hand up my thigh.
So I stood up and I tell him I should get back to work.
He says, "stay.
" He unbuckled his belt.
Did you? No, I walked out of the office and got back to my tables.
Next day, I came into work, told me to go home.
I was fired.
Tell me the name of the restaurant.
You're home early.
I needed a breather.
I didn't have breakfast this morning.
I might head back in a little while.
The vote count? It's going to come down to the wire on this one.
I spoke to Catherine Durant today.
She's unable to get the shipment out of South Sudan.
Yeah, we're cutting all diplomatic ties.
Foreign affairs is up in arms about it.
Yes.
Which is why she can't lift a finger, according to her.
It's what she said anyway.
Anyway, I need you to talk to her.
I don't think that would make any difference.
I thought she owed us, Francis.
She does, but there's limits.
She's secretary of state.
She can't break diplomatic protocol.
Well, can you make some calls? If she can't, I can't.
Plus I have to focus on the watershed bill.
I'm taking time out of my schedule to help you with that.
- Because you drafted it.
- Because you asked me.
I didn't want to do this.
All I'm asking is that you give me a little bit of your time in return.
And how am I supposed to fix a problem I can't fix? What about Remy? Glendon Hill must have contacts in South Sudan.
He's fighting us on the vote.
Those are two completely separate issues.
They are not.
He does you a favor, he hangs it over me.
So what you're saying is my goals are secondary to yours.
That is not what I'm saying.
I think you don't want to go hat in hand to somebody who used to work for you.
I will not be lectured to the moment you walk in the door! I called Catherine, as promised! Her inability to deliver is not my problem or my fault! I cannot control changing global landscapes! And I will not be cornered into making promises I cannot deliver! I am sorry I yelled.
I'm under a lot of pressure.
You're right, I didn't think it through.
I just can't go to Remy right now.
He's poaching too many of my people.
I've got two congressmen who will not commit.
I was hoping you might speak to them.
Who? Vanderburgh and Abrams.
What is it that you want me to say to them? They're big on the environment.
They don't think the bill goes far enough.
They respect your opinion.
I wanted you to walk them through the bill step-by-step.
Put them at ease.
I need to get them in the yes column.
I meet with them tomorrow.
I'll deliver the bruises.
You meet with them later and patch them up.
That might just do the trick.
Of course.
I think I broke the bowl.
We have contacts there through our oil interest.
I'm going to need government intervention.
Wherever there's a government, we know people.
Even when there's only the illusion of a government.
Will you help me? I'd like to.
But for something like this, I'm afraid there's a price tag.
The C.
W.
I.
Will endorse Sancorp as eco-friendly.
They can use our logo on any PR or marketing materials you want.
We'll need more than that.
They were willing to donate over a million for that.
These filters are only worth $200,000.
I'd say that's a bargain.
You turned down that offer.
Landscape has shifted since then.
- The watershed bill? - That's right.
You want it amended? I want you to kill it, the whole thing.
C.
W.
I.
Has publicly backed the bill, Remy.
What you do publicly is your concern.
Gentlemen.
Please, have a seat.
So have either of you changed your mind since we last spoke? We're still undecided, Frank.
Leaning one way or the other? If congress is going to allocate a quarter billion dollars, we want to make sure it goes towards a bill that does more to protect the we've been through all that.
I know your concerns.
So if the protection standards don't change, we would rather see that money spent more effectively elsewhere.
That sounds like you're both leaning no.
We've been very clear about what we're asking.
Okay.
This is you, Abrams.
And this is you, vanderburgh.
And over here Is the majority of the Democratic caucus.
See, you're over there all by your lonesome.
Now, you don't mind being the black sheep.
You're the liberal wing of the liberal wing.
Most of the time you can vote what you want, we still pass things anyway.
But this time it does matter.
And what the two of you aren't taking into account is between this end of the desk and this end of the desk Is me.
Now, I'm going to say to you what I say to every congressman that sits where you're sitting now.
Vote your district.
Vote your conscience.
Don't surprise me.
And the most important one of those Is don't surprise me.
Now, you're both to meet with my wife tomorrow.
And you're to hear her out.
She will go through your concerns point-by-point.
And I am certain after that that the two of you will make the right decision.
This is the part where you leave.
I have often found that bleeding hearts have a ironic fear of their own blood.
One drop and the seize up.
But offer them a caring hand and massage them back to life and they soon start beating to the right drum.
Hello.
I've just spoken to Abrams and Vanderburgh.
Let them toss and turn tonight, but they're all yours tomorrow.
I'll reach out to their offices and set a time.
Thank you, Claire.
Of course.
Whatever I can do to help.
Here you go, sir.
Enjoy.
Excuse me.
There's a hair on my steak.
I am so sorry, sir.
Where? Right there.
I don't see it.
Are you telling me I'm blind? No, sir.
I'm so sorry.
- I'll have the kitchen.
- What's your name? Stephanie.
You can leave the plate, Stephanie.
I'd like to talk to the manager.
Yes, sir.
I'll go get him.
Thank you.
Good evening, sir.
Uh, Stephanie tells me there was a hair on your plate.
No.
There wasn't any hair.
Leon, right? That's your name? Yes.
Stephanie is a hot little number, isn't she? Nice ass.
Did you make her blow you before or after you hired her? Sir, I'm going to have to ask you to leave.
- Sit down, Leon.
- Sir, I want you to go.
- I said sit.
- Don't make me call the police.
I'll tell you what.
You call the police, I'll call the department of immigration about the four undocumented employees you have working in the kitchen.
Felony, Leon.
And I might also mention your girlfriend, her mother, and her aunt who also undocumented and living in an apartment that you pay for.
Prison time for you, deportation for them.
Not a pretty picture, is it? Let's talk about Rachel Posner.
How close is it? I should have the last two votes I need committed today.
I just want to make sure no one changes their mind.
I'd prefer not to get embroiled in environmental issues at this time.
But it's also a jobs-creation package.
It's antagonizing oil and gas.
We can't afford that sort of battle after all the capital we spent on education.
All I need is one public statement of support.
I won't do that.
About you take Linda tomorrow.
You set her up in your offices.
Any meetings or calls you might need to whip up votes, you got her there.
Well, I can't afford to spend a whole day lobbying on the hill.
Well, you got deputies.
Yes, I do.
Well, you're telling me you can't manage them from ten blocks away? Of course I can, sir.
Look, if it's too difficult no, no, no.
We'll help you out, Frank.
Won't we, Linda? Yes.
If you'll just excuse me, I have a few things to rearrange on my schedule.
What else, Frank? Tell me what Birch is up to.
No, I know I've already canceled twice.
They start next week.
Sweetie, I'm trying to figure this out.
- Linda.
- Excuse me.
- Yes? - Just wanted thank you for agreeing to pitch in, I know you have a full plate.
Of course, Frank.
Is everything all right? It sounds like yes.
What time do you want me to come by tomorrow? Can we talk? Can I just call you back in one second? I will call you.
Yes.
Linda, I am so sorry that the president has forced you into this.
It was not my intention.
If you would like, I can talk congress no, it's not that.
It's a personal matter.
Don't worry.
Well, what is it? Maybe I can help.
Just my son didn't get into Stanford.
I was supposed to meet with the Provost tomorrow to see if I could get him to change his mind.
I asked the president if I could go, and he said yes, but he must have forgotten.
You should go.
I'm sure the president will understand.
No, no.
I don't let personal matters get in the way of my job, Frank.
Linda, you can't put your entire life on hold.
And certainly not at the expense of your own son.
Well, it has been at the expense of my son.
It's my fault he didn't get in.
I was on the campaign and I wasn't there for him.
His grades suffered.
His application was I wasn't there, Frank.
But I figured if I could just meet with the Provost face to face okay, look, you're going to Stanford tomorrow.
If you show up at my office, I won't let you in, so don't even consider it.
Frank, the president wants me to be he doesn't have to know.
I'm going to have one of my schedulers buy you a ticket.
The bill will be fine.
Frank.
You don't have to do this.
We may have our disagreements, Linda, but that doesn't mean we can't look out for each other.
You tell them you're coming.
- Okay.
Give that a try.
- Test, test, test.
All right, Zoe.
This is Dave, the senior producer in New York.
- We'll go live in four minutes.
- Sounds good.
The first topic will be the congressional agenda for the fall session, then we'll move on to the midterms, then we'll wrap it up with Peter Russo's race for Governor and his watershed bill.
- Okay, great.
- Taking you off mic until 30 out.
Hey, Janine, I have to talk about the watershed bill.
- Do you have a one-sheet? - Uh, yeah.
Hold on.
- Thanks.
- Mm-hmm.
Any word on the vote count? Still no luck.
I've called every democrat in the house to cobble together a number, but no one's getting back to me.
So what can I say? That there's a lot in flux, and it'll be tight.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Sure thing.
Hey, Francis, it's me.
Call me back.
Yes.
Congressman Russo.
He says it's urgent.
Fine.
Good morning, sir.
I'd like to talk about how the tour's going.
Well, let's talk on the bus.
Don't we have an event at 11:00? There won't be any events until we talk.
You're hijacking the microphone.
You're contradicting everything I say.
We need to be promoting the watershed act.
Well, I appreciate your being so forthright.
Let me tell you what I don't appreciate.
The D.
N.
C.
Is running a man with zero track record, except for substance abuse, to fill my shoes.
I realize you don't want to be here, sir, but it seems like you're deliberately trying to sabotage my campaign.
Despite my better judgment, I'm trying to save it.
I know the people of this state better than you, Peter.
They don't want to hear about watersheds.
They want to hear about jobs.
Well, this week, they need to hear both.
Well, then, maybe I should just stand quietly beside you at the podium and watch you lose.
- You don't think I can win, do you? - I'm not optimistic.
You lost the first two times you ran for Governor.
The third time, nobody thought you had a chance.
By September, you were 15 points down.
You were out of money.
You had to mortgage your own house just to keep your staff on payroll.
I'm well aware of what I did.
I was there.
My point is you kept going.
You hit and you proved everyone wrong.
Like it or not, it's my name on the ticket this time, and I got the shot, and I'm gonna prove everyone wrong.
Just like you did.
Including you, sir.
I would like your support, but if you won't give it, fine.
It won't stop me.
You think it's easy for me to be here? I left the Governor's mansion right in my prime.
To be what? Vice president.
I thought that was a step up.
But you know what? I don't have a fucking shred of real influence.
I'm trotted around like a goddamn mascot, and this is my home state.
I'm offering you influence, sir.
I'd like your guidance and your expertise.
But if that's not on the table, then, well With all due respect, Mr.
Vice President, you should head back to Washington.
Your husband was very explicit.
I would categorize it as a threat.
- What did he say exactly? - Not to surprise him.
Didn't he also tell you to vote your district and your conscience? He did, but those seemed far lower on his priority list.
Well, he would never fault you if you had a compelling reason to do what you think is right.
I'm confused.
Aren't you for this bill? C.
W.
I.
Is publicly for it.
Privately, I have my doubts for the same reasons you do.
I was under the impression that we were here so you could persuade us to vote yes.
Oh, I'm not trying to persuade you of anything.
I will say this: If the bill fails, it's not the end of the world.
We can always sponsor new legislation.
You know, something with stricter regulatory standards.
Just to be clear, you're telling us you don't mind if we vote against the bill.
I'm simply saying what my husband would that you should vote your conscience.
- How are we looking? - We're short a vote.
I just got off the phone with Claire.
Vanderburgh and Abrams are on board.
- Those are definite yeses? - Definite.
We should be good.
Yes? I've been trying to reach you since yesterday.
Well, I've been a bit busy counting votes.
You said you'd have a number for me.
Well, you should try my press office.
I did.
They won't return my calls.
Well, the official word is it will be close.
I'm trying to get the unofficial word.
Oh, I can't appear to be playing favorites now, can I? This isn't because of the other day, is it? What other day? You said we'd keep our professional relationship.
Well, this is what professional feels like.
The vice president of the United States, Jim Matthews! Thank you.
It's good to be back in Bristol.
Go, warriors! Now, you all know me.
I'm a windbag.
I can go on until you all fall asleep, get eight hours of shut-eye, and wake up to find me still yapping.
And there's a lot I could say about this young man to my left.
The truth is, I've had a lot of doubts about him and his ideas, about his past, about his youth.
But if you'll remember, a lot of you had doubts about me the first time I ran.
And the second and the third.
But over the last few days, traveling around the state with Peter, I have to admit he's won me over.
He's smart, he's energetic, and, most important, he's a fighter.
Now, it says "a fresh start" on that bus over there.
And that's the real truth, because this young man will give our state the fresh start it so desperately needs.
Ladies and gentlemen, the next Governor of Pennsylvania, Peter Russo.
Thank you, Mr.
Vice President.
How's it going, Bristol? Today I'd like to talk to you about economic recovery.
Now, as many of you may be aware, mostly because my opponent feels the need to spend millions of dollars on TV ads about my past, I know a thing or two about recovery.
I've learned a great deal through my personal struggles.
I've learned how to harness my strength and my resolve, make them work for me, much the way your Bristol watermills harnessed the power of your beautiful otter creek and the mighty Delaware river years ago.
Let me tell you how the Delaware river will reinvigorate your economy for years to come! We're going to get the shipment out of Sudan.
- That's great.
- It might take a few weeks, but I think you should start making arrangements for Botswana, where you're gonna set up base camp and the depot.
Just send me a budget as soon as you've got one.
Claire, is there any way we can send someone in my place? I thought you wanted to be on the ground.
I would, but I can't this time.
Why not? I wasn't sure how to tell you this, but I passed the 12-week mark.
You're expecting.
Gillian, that's wonderful.
That when did this happen? Who's the father? There was this guy I met overseas.
Doctors without borders.
We had this thing.
Then I left.
But he came back to the states a few months ago, and that's when it happened.
Anyway, it didn't end well.
But I want to keep the baby.
- And does he know? - He's married.
- Oh.
- I shouldn't have.
It was stupid.
You don't have to explain.
I'll need some time off at the beginning of march.
Of course.
And absolutely, we'll send someone else instead.
I appreciate it, Claire.
Sure.
You said medium-rare? Just, uh, let me know if you guys need anything.
Who would you guess texted me just now? I thought she'd last more than a couple days.
- Going somewhere? - Just for an hour or two.
I got one last holdout to whip.
What's the vote count on Russo's bill? Oh, don't you wanna shower first before we dirty ourselves with business? I'll shower after you leave.
What's the vote count? Your tone doesn't inspire me to be very forthcoming.
Oh, the fuck wasn't enough? You need a special tone too? Ooh, someone washed her mouth out with acid this morning.
Whatever it is you're grappling with, I am sincerely not interested.
You're almost twice my age.
You said that didn't bother you.
I lied.
If you had a daughter, she'd be older than me.
In 20 years, I'll still be younger than you are now.
Well, I can't argue with basic arithmetic.
You don't find that disgusting? I think you want me to.
But I've never considered this any more or less than a transaction between two consenting adults.
If you just want the girl who will do your bidding for you, you already have that.
Why do you need to fuck me? I would remind you that it was you who initiated our affair, and it was you who came knocking at my door last winter.
And it was me who asked that we stop what we're doing now.
Which I respected until you picked up a phone and asked me to come over tonight.
Because you wouldn't give me what I wanted unless I did.
So tell me, why do you need this? You don't seem to get any pleasure out of it.
I know I certainly don't.
I seem to always leave you satisfied.
How do you know I'm not faking it? Are you? Doesn't it say a lot that you can't tell? What do you think about when I'm up against the wall? A great man once said that everything in life is about sex Except sex.
Sex is about power.
So you need a whore, which makes you a pimp.
I'm not a pimp.
Just a very generous John.
Fine.
As long as we're clear about what this is, I can play the whore.
Now pay me.
The bill will pass.
We have it by two votes.
You can pass that along to your friend, miss Skorsky.
If she must say such things in order to sleep at night, so be it.
Her loyalty costs me nothing but the occasional crumb of news.
Her hatefulness takes no toll at all.
You don't compensate a working girl so you can cuddle after.
Final voting A lot of small towns, some really great crowds.
- No buses losing their brakes.
- Final call for voting.
Oh, please now.
When do you head back? Tomorrow.
We wanna do a press conference when all the votes are in.
- Members, please cast your votes now.
- Are you all right? I'm just a little nauseous.
It'll pass.
I'm okay.
- You said you're due in march? - March 14th.
It's so exciting.
How's the morning sickness? I think I'm over the hump.
I have to pee all the time.
Weird cravings.
It was good to be on the road again.
Invigorating.
Our internals are showing a nice bump in the numbers.
You made a big difference.
The president is grateful, and so am I.
Well, it's a team effort, right? Excuse me.
I have yet to say hello to your better half.
- How'd it go at Stanford? - Well, I think.
The Dean's a republican, so there was not a lot of small talk.
But he seemed open to considering it.
We'll know more next week.
- That's terrific.
- I appreciate your helping me out.
Oh, I didn't do anything.
Anybody can book a plane ticket.
That's not true.
You covered for me.
Well, we have to keep the important things in perspective, right? Don't think it's bought you any favors.
Kindness isn't kindness if you expect a reward.
The man of the hour! Not yet.
The votes are still coming in.
Hey, how'd you vote? I voted yes.
Voting.
I knew I forgot something.
We got this.
There's some sparkling grape juice there to celebrate.
- 30 seconds remaining.
- 30 seconds.
Looking good.
Come on, everyone.
Let's go.
Everyone's voting along party lines.
See? This is what happens when we all stick together.
This is an easy win for us.
- Vote now.
- Ten seconds.
Come on.
This can't be happening.
Members, please cast your votes now.
Voting is closed.
Hr 4913 is defeated.
- Doug.
- I thought we had it.
So this means it's dead? It's such a shame.
All of that hard work.
I wanna know who lied.
The whole reason we do these meetings, Frank, is so I can get accurate information from you.
I always said it was going to be close.
Then why did every article I read yesterday say the leadership was confident the bill would pass? - Do you know Janine Skorsky? - She used to be the Herald's White House correspondent.
I remember Janine.
She wrote an article for Slugline reporting a verified vote count.
Once the media got ahold of that, it went everywhere.
I don't know where she got that number.
Maybe she made it up.
It doesn't matter if she made it up.
The democrats seem divided.
The leadership looks incompetent.
But compared the the budget and our education act, why, this was a minor bill, sir.
That happened to be in the national spotlight, which is what you wanted.
I got the count wrong.
It rarely happens, but it happens.
What worries me is that the White House's influence isn't translating into support on the hill.
Linda's involvement had no effect? I wouldn't say that that's the case, sir.
Did you sense any push-back, any fallout from the education battle? Sir, the truth is I wasn't there.
I had to make a trip to California to meet the Provost of Stanford for my son.
I told you about it last week.
It was my decision, sir.
I made a judgment call that we could pass the bill without her help.
But, look, tight votes like this, you can analyze them to death, but at the end of the day, we came up short.
That's my fault, no one else's.
Certainly not Linda's.
I shouldn't have gone.
The meeting didn't even work.
I thought you said they were reconsidering.
No.
I got an e-mail this morning.
They decided not to overturn the admissions decision.
Oh, Christ.
I'm sorry, Linda.
Not a great day so far.
But I appreciate your covering for me in there.
There may be a way to turn Linda's bad luck into my good fortune.
But first I must deal with treason within the ranks the two renegades who voted against the bill.
I have zero tolerance for betrayal, which they will soon indelibly learn.
I know why you lost the vote.
Somebody got to Vanderburgh and Abrams.
Remy Danton.
Your wife.
I've got contacts on both their staffs.
There was a meeting between the three of them.
I know.
I arranged it.
- She told them to vote no.
- No, not true.
Sources on two different staffs saying the exact same thing? That makes no sense.
I'm not telling you what makes sense, I'm telling you facts.
This is a juicy story, Francis.
Carly will love it.
The majority whip's wife stabs him in the back.
Be careful, Zoe.
I'm feeding you.
Now you have to feed me.
So give me something better.
Are you going to answer my question? Did she or didn't she? Tell me now, or so help me God, I will make it my mission in life to not only destroy your careers, but to obliterate all hope and happiness that you manage to cling to.
- She said it would be okay - To backstab me? To do what we thought was right.
So she did tell you to vote no.
She said it wouldn't be the end of the world if the bill failed.
Those were her exact words.
You discuss this with no one.
Is that understood? Do you blame yourself for not being in Washington to secure the votes? A bill this size is a team effort.
There are a lot of sponsors.
- But you were the chief sponsor and the bill manager.
- That's true.
So shouldn't you have been in Washington? I'm running for Governor.
I have a commitment to the people of my state.
Are you aware that the swofford campaign is putting out a new commercial today that says, quote, "if Peter Russo can't follow through in congress", can he follow through with sobriety?" That's all.
Thank you very much.
- Do you want to comment? - Thanks, guys.
Congressman! All I said was what you always say to vote their conscience.
You encouraged them to defy me.
I met with them.
That's what you asked me no, that is not what you did.
I specifically told you I needed them to vote yes on this bill.
There was no room for interpretation.
It's a deliberate lie, so don't try to sugarcoat it, Claire.
I needed Remy's help.
You wouldn't offer any.
Oh, wait.
You did this for Remy? No.
For myself.
To get my shipment out of Sudan.
He provided assistance.
In exchange for defeating the bill.
No.
In exchange for not helping it succeed.
Which is the same goddamn thing.
Do you realize you have endangered everything that we have been working toward? There was a timetable here, Claire.
We needed strong momentum right up until the last minute.
I can't operate based on plans you haven't shared with me.
Then you should've asked me first.
No, I'm not going to ask for your blessing on every decision I make, Francis.
We make decisions together.
Yeah, well, it hasn't felt like that.
Not for the past six months.
I don't feel as though I'm standing beside you.
Other people know, Claire.
This could become a story about us.
- And that's something you do not recover from.
- Who? - That's something that follows you for life.
- Who knows? Zoe.
I thought you said she could be trusted.
- What about our trust? - You can't control her, can you, Francis? She wouldn't have been a problem if you hadn't lied.
No, she wouldn't have been a problem if you hadn't dropped your pants.
And you come in here, to my office, and berate me when you're the one who's exposed us? Don't you try to turn this around on me.
I fired half of my staff for us.
I have turned down donations for us.
I drafted Peter's bill for us.
I diverted time and energy away from my goals for us.
Okay, I don't wanna have to say this, but maybe you need to hear it.
C.
W.
I.
Is important, yes, but it doesn't come close to what we are trying to accomplish.
You must see that! I'm just being honest.
Then be honest about how you've been using me just like you use everybody else.
That was never part of the bargain.
Is it the hot flashes? Get out.
Get out.
I'll see you back at the house.
I'm on my way to the office.
- Let me call you when I get there.
- No, no.
We need to talk now.
I know you're upset, Peter, but that's not going to achieve anything.
I am more than upset, Frank.
Change your tone.
I'm in no mood.
- I don't give a fuck! - Good-bye, Peter.
You hang up on me now, you're not gonna appreciate who I call next.
- Excuse me? - I promised my people jobs.
You promised me you could get this bill passed.
You failed on your promise.
I'm not gonna fail on mine.
So however you need to fix it, you figure it out.
Otherwise, I go public with Kapeniak and the Kern editorial.
You need to cool down and think very carefully about what you just said.
You don't understand.
I'm not afraid of you anymore, Frank.
- Then you're misguided.
- My past is out in the open.
You don't hold that over my head anymore.
They don't know everything, Peter.
You destroy me, you destroy yourself.
Fix it.
- What do you want me to do? - We have to accelerate things.
Isn't it too early? It's almost two full months into the election.
- That gives the White House too much time to vet somebody.
- Peter's crossed the line.
We built up his confidence, and now we're losing control of him.
Maybe he was just blowing off steam.
No.
He's determined.
We have to act now.
You have everything you need on your end? Give me a when and a where.
Some sort of social setting's preferable.
- Anything else? - I'll need cash.
About three grand.
It'll be in your top drawer by tomorrow morning.
Sir Once we do this, we're committed.
- Understood.
- I can't predict how he's gonna react.
Well, I won't be blackmailed.
Hello? Zoe Barnes? Yeah.
Who is it? Claire Underwood.
Zoe? I apologize for not buzzing.
Somebody was coming in the building when I was downstairs, so I just figured This is nice fire escape.
Hey, could you please not go through my things? Oh, I'm sorry.
Am I intruding? Yeah, actually.
You are.
Well, that makes it a two-way street, I suppose.
Okay, if you if you came here to punish me Fine.
I get it.
Such a shame, how naive you are.
- I'm not naive.
- No? I've known everything from the beginning, Zoe.
My husband and I tell each other everything.
Don't you believe me? Is there a spider I can trap? I'm not here to punish you or to tell you to stop.
I just thought I should open those big bright eyes.
I think you should leave.
I think I should too.
Maybe you're not that naive.
A lesser woman wouldn't have opened the door.
Union station, please.
This is Claire.
I'm unavailable to answer the phone, but if you leave a message, I'll be sure and get back to you shortly.
Thank - Hello? - Zoe.
You don't have to tiptoe.
I thought you fell asleep.
No.
Just thinking about work.
I don't have anything for you yet.
I will soon.
I know you will.
You can spend the night if you want.
Early meetings.
Wouldn't have time to get home and change.
- You seem distracted.
- I have a lot on my mind.
Like what? - Work, just like you.
- No Claire? Or maybe she qualifies as work.
She didn't mention anything? About I thought you didn't keep things from each other.
Look, just say what you want to say.
She came by here a few hours ago.
We had a nice little talk.
Don't let me keep you.
You should go home, get some rest.
Tell Claire I said hi.
Hey! This is Claire.
I'm unavailable to answer The lights in the Whartons' house will go on in a few moments.
They always get up precisely at quarter to 7:00, which is just the time that Claire would be going for her run, if she were here.
Rebellion on all fronts Claire, Zoe, Russo.
I must not lose my resolve.
I will march forward, even if I have to do so Alone.
See? Told ya.
- Good morning.
- Ohh! Hi, Frank.
- How are you? - I'm good.
- Have you heard from Claire? - Yeah, I got her message.
- How's she feeling? - A lot better.
Good.
She said she'd be gone for the rest of the week.
- Is it the flu or something? - Something like that.
I just came over to pick up a few things from her office.
- I could've sent somebody over.
- Oh, no.
It's no big deal.
In fact, I also came here to ask you a favor.
You went to Stanford, correct? - Valedictorian? - Yeah.
- Do you know the provost? - Warren Tynsdale.
He flies me out to do fund-raising events.
Supposedly I'm the poster child for alumni.
Making the world a better place.
Well, that is good, because this is important.
Linda vasquez, the President's Chief of staff her son, Ruben, applied.
I'd love for you to get on the phone with Tynsdale and tell him that they should accept him.
I don't know.
I I've never recommended anyone.
All the better.
It'll carry more weight.
Can I meet Ruben first? I would really prefer that Linda not know.
In fact, it would be better if both she and Ruben believed he got in on merit alone.
Will you please do this favor for Claire and me? And for the president.
Thank you.
More contrast.
We need to catch the edge of his face.
Let's re-crop it.
Bring it in a quarter of an inch on the left.
Would you Somebody named Claire? Remy.
You hungry? I don't eat pork.
When did that happen? When we started lobbying for the meatpacking industry.
Freddy, half a rack for me, and some Collard Greens for my friend here.
I'm good.
I already ate lunch.
Half a rack coming up.
I don't usually do business here.
This is my little secret.
I'd love it if we could keep it that way.
I don't think you have to worry about me bringing clients by.
You seem tense, Remy.
I assume you're upset about the watershed bill.
Not with you.
You were just doing your job.
But now I have to do mine.
I'd like to propose a partnership.
I'm always open to partnerships, Frank.
If Peter Russo were a pro-natural gas candidate, how valuable would that be to Sancorp? The watershed bill was anti-drilling.
Peter's pro-employment, not anti-drilling.
He just wants to bring employment to his people, and Sancorp is building refineries.
Mostly on site.
Do you think they would be open to considering Philadelphia? I can talk with them, but I can't make any promises.
Oh, I don't want any promises.
Just engage with Russo.
You know, give him a glimmer of good fortune.
Aw, Frank, here you go.
Come on.
Smell that.
You sure you don't want to reconsider your stance on pork? Brain food, brother.
- I love it.
- 850.
You can afford that? Yeah.
Yeah, I think so.
First and last month are taken care of.
So is the security deposit.
That's to buy some furniture.
I'll pay you back.
I promise.
It's not necessary.
But I do need you to do one thing for me.
- I come across as a hypocrite.
- You need jobs.
Do you really care how you deliver them? First, I advocate for more regulation for the watershed, then I cozy up to the drilling interests? Yeah, but natural gas is the future, Peter.
This is an industry that could bring 100,000 jobs into your state over the next decade.
I agree with Peter.
It seems like flip-flopping.
Sancorp's lobbying efforts is why we lost the watershed bill.
But they can also be a very powerful ally.
Our message is a "fresh start.
" This makes you look like business as usual.
This is politics.
There are seized opportunities and missed opportunities.
Seize this one, Peter.
Sancorp can commit to building new refineries in Philly? Sancorp will commit to discussing it with you.
- I need more than that.
- Look, you asked me to fix a problem.
I've come to you in less than Can you meet me halfway? What would be the first step? All right.
You remember Remy Danton? - Oh, come on.
He led the charge against the watershed bill.
- I know.
That's not the point.
One of his other big clients is the McNeally cancer institute.
They're having a big gala tonight a cocktail party for their donors.
Remy will be there.
We have events in Haverford and Gladwyne yeah, well, this is more important.
You also have a radio interview tomorrow morning with a local Pittsburgh station? - Yes.
- All right.
Meet with Remy tonight.
And if it goes well and if you're comfortable, tomorrow morning on the radio, you support their drilling efforts.
And Remy has assured me if you do that, he can push Sancorp in the right direction.
Cancel the events tomorrow.
Head back to Philly, do some damage control.
- I'll see you tomorrow afternoon.
- Peter please.
Okay.
I'm gonna go make some calls.
Peter, have you mentioned anything to her about Kapeniak or No.
I haven't mentioned it to anybody.
All right.
Stamper will come by in the morning and brief you on the talking points.
When did you take this? Oh, it was about The sun had just come up.
You were asleep right here.
The light was perfect.
I had no choice.
I always slept so well in this apartment.
How long are you in town for? I don't know.
I haven't decided.
You have no luggage.
It smells the same.
Feels the same.
I think Sancorp is missing out, not having a significant presence in Philadelphia.
There are advantages to centralizing in a major urban center.
But the disadvantages are commercial real estate prices, city taxes, building a pipeline.
It's all very costly.
So they'd have to reduce costs elsewhere.
- Significantly.
- How can I help with that? Statewide permitted-use zoning.
No more conditional zoning.
The municipalities are slowing down development.
That's the state legislature.
You come out in support of permitted use, and you get elected Governor.
That'll put pressure on the legislature.
Sancorp is very interested in having a powerful friend in Harrisburg.
My opponent's pro-drilling.
Your opponent isn't asking for refineries in Philadelphia.
We prefer friends we can count on.
Have your clients listen to WZPZ tomorrow at a quarter to 8:00.
It's a Pittsburgh station.
It's been a pleasure, Congressman.
I look forward to talking again soon.
You got a light? This is a cancer research event.
I know.
I helped organize it.
- You work for the institute? - No.
The hotel.
And they let you smoke here? No.
The manager would kill me.
Well, at least it got you talking.
Are you having a good night? You look happy.
Uh, I am.
I am.
I'm having a great night.
- Why? - I just got some very good news.
We should celebrate.
What are you drinking? You know, I was just leaving, actually.
You haven't even asked my name yet.
- I apologize, but I have to go.
- It's Rachel.
I'm not trying to be rude, but I got a big meeting tomorrow.
Then don't be rude.
Just stay a few more minutes and keep me from having to mingle.
My date ditched me.
So if you abandon me now, that would be very rude.
These heels are killing me.
- Feel that.
Feel that blister.
- Hey, I I have a girlfriend.
I'd be surprised if you didn't.
- Why'd your date ditch you? - Mmm.
Very scandalous.
Mmm, what happened? Clink glasses with me.
Wow.
Ooh.
I'm petite, but I can hold my liquor.
Obviously.
When I do get drunk, though What then? I get undressed.
What about you? What are you like when you get drunk? - It's not pretty.
- Pretty's overrated.
I like it when things get a little bit ugly.
When I work late nights, they let me stay at the hotel so I don't have to drive home.
Um This one is yours.
Room 1121.
Sir? In here.
You wanted to see me? I need you to locate somebody.
Who? My wife.
Do you have a way of doing that? I do, sir.
I know a guy in missing persons she's not missing.
I just Don't know where she is at the moment.
I trust him.
We can do this off the books.
Good.
I'll get on it right away.
Come on.
Give us another one.
No.
I'll tell you why.
Because my mother always used to tell me to smile more.
Always drove me crazy.
She'd say, "Claire", "why have you that scowl all the time? You look so much more beautiful when you smile.
" It was never a real conversation.
There was never, "oh, what do you feel?" Or "what are you thinking?" Just so long as I looked beautiful and happy.
That's all she cared about.
So you want me to ask you what you're thinking and feeling? All the time.
I actually do wanna know what you're thinking and feeling.
- How sad am I? - Okay, so tell me first.
- What? - Tell me first.
- I think I'd better get dressed.
- What? Why? Uh, because I've got friends coming over, and as a host, I should probably wear clothes.
- Really? - Yeah.
- Why do you do that? - Well, you know.
- It's proper? - Kind of.
Oh, fuck.
Thought you might have bailed.
Sit down.
Vodka or whiskey? Uh, you go ahead.
Come on.
You can be a good boy downstairs, not up here.
Seriously, I'm good.
Whiskey, I think.
So what's your good news? I wanna know what we're celebrating.
Why did your, uh why did your date ditch you? - I asked you first.
- I did, downstairs.
He works on the hill.
Some staffer or something.
I don't know.
I think he's a glorified gofer.
A friend set me up with him.
So I said he should come tonight, keep me company.
But all he wanted to do was schmooze.
So I brought him into the women's bathroom, told him he was being an asshole.
He told me I was being childish.
So I slapped him.
You slapped him? Yeah.
Big red hand mark right across his face.
I think he was embarrassed to be seen by the Schmoozerati.
So he left.
And that is the last time I go on a date with a guy who wears a flag pin to work.
I'm one of those guys who wears a flag pin to work.
This isn't really a date, is it? I really shouldn't be here.
That's what makes it fun.
Tell me your good news.
I wanna know what we're toasting to.
Let's toast to you.
I'm your good news? Okay, I'll toast to that.
Oh.
Hey.
What are you I didn't wanna wait at the Herald.
I was gonna call you, but Can I stay at your place tonight? Uh, stay with me? Well, just on your couch for a night or two.
Uh, why? I can't be in my apartment.
- Did something happen? - No.
I I'm sorry.
Zoe.
Come on.
What time is the interview? Quarter to 8:00.
I'll be with him.
And where's Peter now? Are you sure you want the details? Mm.
Just tell me, is it going well? Hasn't been any updates.
But if it does go well, you'll be ready? I'm ready.
I've been ready.
I'm ready.
- Anything else? - We never played chess before, have we? I don't know how.
You want me to teach you? I should really get some rest.
Be fresh for the morning.
Yeah, another time.
Good night.
I hate being kept in the dark.
Waiting.
Speculating.
Useless.
Oh, come on! - Let's dance.
- Whoo-hoo! Yeah.
It's not a big deal.
Come on, let's do it.
- Come on, let's do it.
- No.
No, please, I can't.
Not now.
Come on.
This is really nice.
Do you want anything? Water? Juice? No, thanks.
I'm good.
Uh, you can have the bed.
I'll sleep on the couch.
No.
No.
It's fine.
Please, Lucas, let me sleep on the couch.
I'll feel bad.
All right.
- Can I help? - I got it.
So, you know, we don't have to talk if you don't want to.
But I haven't seen you in, like, six months.
Except for when I drunkenly stalked you at your - Right.
- That was kind of adorable.
It was either psychotic or sad.
Not adorable.
Yes, it was.
Can you hand me that pillow? So, why do you need to get out of your apartment? It just felt small.
Well, it can't be smaller than my place.
No.
I don't mean size.
I mean I felt trapped.
Like I was in a place that I didn't actually live.
Does that make any sense? I guess.
Okay.
There you go.
Um, anytime you need to get up or um, I'll just set an alarm on my phone.
All right.
Well, feel free to watch TV.
I can sleep through anything.
Hey, thank you, Lucas.
Hey, that's the last of it.
Better make it count, then.
- Drink up.
- Mm.
Mmm.
Do I look familiar to you? Familiar? No.
- My face? My body? - No.
How about my voice? Have we No.
No.
I was just wondering if you had a thing for brunettes with blue eyes.
- Hey, where you going? Come back here.
- I wanna see you better.
Shit.
The sun's up? Has been for a while.
- Oh, fuck.
What time is it? - 7:15.
Fuck.
I have an interview in half an hour.
- Skip it.
- I can't.
I gotta do it.
You can keep the room till noon.
- Hello? - I'm at your building.
The front desk keeps calling up, but there's no answer.
- I'm not there.
- Then I'll come to you.
Where are you? I'm I'm at the Park Highmore hotel.
Are you okay? You sound drunk.
It was, uh yeah.
Yeah.
I'm I'm all right.
- You have the interview.
- I know! Have you been drinking, Peter? Uh, what? No.
Um, I just decided to spend the night here.
What room are you in? Stay there.
I'm coming right now.
Jesus, Peter.
What happened? You're drunk.
- I'm fine.
- I can smell it on you.
Okay, I had a drink or two.
It was nothing crazy.
We can't do this interview.
I'm sober.
I can handle it.
You're slurring your words.
I'm good.
I think we should cancel.
I'm gonna do the interview.
Just give me the talking points.
Sorry.
Sorry.
I It's all right.
The couch had a spring in it or something, and my back no.
It's all right.
I don't mind.
Sir, I heard from my friend.
Missing persons.
And? - She's in New York.
- What hotel? Not a hotel, sir.
So she's not alone.
No, sir.
Adam Galloway? Yes, sir.
I have more information.
I don't need to know.
Turn on 1160 A.
M.
He's running to fill Jim Matthews' old post as Governor of Pennsylvania.
Glad to have you with us, sir.
It's good to be here, Jim.
- It's mark.
- Sorry.
Right.
Mark.
That's okay, Congressman.
It happens all the time this early in the morning.
So, Congressman, the watershed act.
Yes.
Uh, I'm ashamed of the well, I'm not ashamed.
That's not the right, um I'm disappointed, um, because, you know, the water It's, um it's actually, what I'd like to discuss is we all know that natural gas that it's it's a growing uh, in our state it's a it's a big part of, um economically, the way things are going.
And I'd like to say to announce in terms of, um Are you familiar with drilling regulations permitted use versus conditional use? Are we still talking about the watershed? No.
Drilling.
Natural gas.
Sir, you supported increased regulation.
Well, no.
I i it may have looked that way, but, uh, in fact, to be clear, I'm for less Regulation.
Yes, sir.
In the watershed bill, the language clearly stated it didn't pass.
Well, right.
That's what I'm asking about.
- What about it? - Why it didn't pass.
I just said.
No, sir.
I don't think you did.
It just didn't.
Sir, three days ago, you predicted I'm talking about fucking natural gas.
I'm sorry.
Congressman, I have to ask you a question, and it may come across as indelicate, but are you drunk right now? What? No.
No.
I'm fine.
I'm fine.
I'm just I'm really tired, you know? I've been on the campaign trail for a few weeks now, and Congressman? Congressman? Congressman? It's my fault.
I shouldn't have let you.
I'm fucked.
Okay.
Listen.
We sober you up.
We'll make some kind of announcement as soon as possible.
There's nothing I can say.
We'll figure this out.
Come on.
You're gonna take a shower.
Come on.
There you go.
Come on.
How bad is it? It all depends on whether it gets picked up by the mainstream press.
- Well, shall I fill in the president? - No.
Hold off on that.
I need to speak to Peter, coordinate with his campaign.
You'll be the first call I make.
Frank, before you go, I got an e-mail this morning.
Stanford reversed their decision.
That's wonderful.
The Provo said Gillian Cole reached out to him.
I googled her.
She works for Claire.
- Thank you.
- No reason to thank me.
Ruben was just ecstatic.
I don't know how I'm gonna repay you.
The fact that your son is happy is more than enough.
- You'll keep me posted on Peter? - You bet.
Okay.
Hey, boss.
- Are you still with him? - Yeah.
- He's taking a shower.
- How're we looking? Zoe Barnes posted ten minutes ago.
It's already on the New York times web site.
The kid is done.
Have Nancy set up a meeting with the Vice President.
- Today if possible.
- Will do.
And keep an eye on Peter.
He's done his duty.
- Let's get him back on his feet.
- You got it.
And now Jim Matthews comes to the fore, though he doesn't know it yet.
He will find solace in his beloved Pennsylvania, though Peter Russo will find solace nowhere.
It only takes ten seconds to crush a man's ambitions.
I need to take care that I protect mine.
Peter.
Peter! Peter? Hey! Peter?
This is Russo.
Please leave a message.
He's not answering my calls.
It's over, and he must know it.
You don't think there's any way he can recover? The Republicans will play that interview on every radio and television station from now until November 5th.
I sympathize with the kid, but this was my concern from the beginning.
And I should've listened to you, sir.
I thought he could handle the pressure.
Okay.
So he withdraws.
We need to replace him.
You have any ideas? With less than two months to go? If the President hadn't shut me out of the early discussions, I could've come up with some good options, but I don't know anyone who's got the name recognition and donor base to start a campaign from scratch just seven weeks out.
Let me think.
Everything hinges on the next few minutes all my months of planning, every move I've made.
- There is one person.
- Who? You, Mr.
Vice President.
If you ran to reclaim your seat, I think you'd win by a landslide.
Resign the vice presidency.
Only if you win.
Walker needs me for 2016.
Are you entirely certain he's gonna keep you on the ticket? I mean, it's no secret the two of you don't exactly get along.
What has he said? Oh, you're putting me in a very awkward position, Mr.
Vice President.
Has he been bad-mouthing me? Well, the exact phrase he used was "pain in the ass.
" That fucker.
He's got no idea how to lead, no sense of respect.
- Oh, is this his idea? - No.
- His way of getting rid of me? - No.
It struck me yesterday, and I just thought it was worth suggesting.
But, no, I haven't discussed this with anyone.
And you shouldn't.
People don't leave the White House to become a governor.
May I ask you a personal question, sir? Do you want to be the Vice President? Peter said that when you were out on that campaign trail, you had so much enthusiasm and energy that he thought you maybe missed being the Governor.
I do miss it.
Then why not go back? You could be the hero of this election and secure Pennsylvania for the Democrats in 2016.
Garrett would never go along with something like this, even if he hates my guts.
It would make him look weak, like he's lost control of the administration.
Not if it was a mutual decision.
Look, let me talk to Garrett.
I won't mention that we've spoken.
I suppose there's no harm in finding out what he thinks.
Thank you, Mr.
Vice President.
- Slogans for 400.
- "1976.
He's making us proud again.
" - D.
J.
- Who is Carter.
- No.
John.
- Who is Ford.
- Peter? - Slogans for 600.
- "1888.
Grandfather's hat fits Ben.
" - Peter, are you here? - Claudia.
- Who is Benjamin Harrison.
- Yes.
- Presidential slogans for 800.
- "1900 " - On the train ride down, I almost called the police to have them break in and make sure you hadn't hurt yourself.
I'm not gonna even ask you what happened.
It doesn't matter right now.
- "1964.
In your heart, you know he's right.
" - What matters right now - what matters - Who is Goldwater.
- Claudia - Who is Goldwater.
Barry Goldwater.
Yes.
Oh, come on.
Hey, I'm watching that.
What matters is the 50 reporters in front of your building and the 150 campaign staffers who don't know if they still have a job.
It's over.
I know.
So, tell them to go away.
What, are you just gonna hole yourself up in here and hope it all goes away? Yeah, that's pretty much the plan.
Well, I won't let you.
Hey, put that down.
Hey.
- Hey, put that down! - Peter We need to put out a statement.
Call me when you're prepared to do that.
I'll be at the headquarters in Philly.
I was scared that I was starting to feel too much for you.
I think that's why I ended it.
And you have no room for fear? No.
Being afraid doesn't accomplish anything.
That's not true.
When I'm overseas, rational fear disease or violence that sort of fear keeps you alive.
Back here, God, I find myself afraid of things that I can't name or point to.
It's like, uh, how little am I seeing? Or have I wasted this day or this moment? Yeah, I think that sometimes whether my life will add up.
Francis would roll his eyes if he heard me talking like this.
Does he know where you are? No, he doesn't.
If he's looking for you, that's where you are.
Over there.
Before you met Frank.
Alone.
Curious.
Absorbing everything.
You have no idea what I was like when I was a girl.
Did he ever know that side of you? He wasn't interested in that girl.
And neither was I.
What were you interested in? Being more than an observer.
You wanted to be seen.
Not just seen.
I wanted to be significant.
There's no historical precedent.
Aaron Burr ran for Governor, Calhoun for the Senate.
duel, the other believed in slavery.
Is that really the sort of company we wanna share, Frank? Mr.
President, we stand losing control of an important swing state, our majority in the house, and quite possibly your second term in office.
Preventing all of that may require unconventional measures.
It would look like I'm pushing him out.
Or worse that he's abandoning the administration.
You make a joint statement.
You say he won't resign unless he wins.
If he loses, he stays on as Vice President.
No one could accuse either of you of disloyalty to the other.
- Did Jim come to you with this? - No.
It's entirely my idea.
I wouldn't dream of speaking to the Vice President without passing it by you first.
I think he'd take it as an affront, like I'm trying to get rid of him.
Honestly, sir, I think he might be more interested than you imagine.
- Why is that? - Well, I hesitate to bring this up, but when he was campaigning for Russo, he spoke quite freely about you, sir.
Mm-hmm.
Tell me.
Of course, I'm getting this secondhand from Peter, but the gist of it is that that you lack entirely in leadership, and that you have no sense of respect.
And he wants more responsibility.
And how do I give him that when he shows absolutely no discretion, no discipline? Well, that is entirely my point.
Now, look, I take full responsibility for backing Russo, but there could be a silver lining in all this.
You could accomplish two goals: Secure Pennsylvania for the Democrats and find an honorable way to replace Matthews.
What do you think? I think it is a very big decision, and we do not want to make it impulsively.
I agree.
I'd like to put some more thought into it.
Well, that is very prudent, sir.
Just bear in mind, seven weeks out, that every day counts.
- Hi, sir.
- How much is it? Oh, I got your receipt right here.
No, no, no.
It was it was just $40.
Yeah.
Don't tell anyone, all right? No.
I I never say anything about our tenants.
- The press still outside? - Yeah.
I told them you weren't here, like you said.
Most of them left.
There's still, you know, a few, though.
If I wanted to leave, is there a place I could do it without being seen? Yeah.
The freight elevator down to the garage.
- I could call you a cab or - All right.
Thanks.
I'll let you know.
Mr.
Russo, uh sir, it's none of my business, but, uh, my Uncle he fell off the wagon a few times.
When he did, the best thing for him was just not to be alone.
I'll give you this money back, I'll take that bag off your hands, come in here, keep you company I appreciate it.
I'll let you know if I change my mind.
Sit down.
Where's Claire? Not here.
So what is this, tying up loose ends? I wouldn't presume.
People like you can't be neatly tied up.
But I thought perhaps we could start It's very tasteful.
This is the dress she wore to the gala.
I believe so.
It is.
I recognize it.
Go back into the bedroom.
I'm amazed how well you got her in focus.
What should we call her? Why does she need a name? I never photograph anyone without knowing their name.
You didn't take the photograph.
I did.
I think we should call her Claire.
She doesn't even look like me.
Not even a younger version.
Why do you keep saying that? Not her features, her expression.
Hey, we should mount it.
You can hang her in your house.
Would Francis object? Can we please not discuss Francis? You brought him up in the park.
I know I did, and I shouldn't have.
So we have to pretend he doesn't exist? I thought we could talk about anything.
He is a presence here.
You must admit that.
When you walked through the door yesterday, he walked right in with you.
It's just me, nobody else.
You keep telling yourself that, it might come true.
How do you think she'd feel if she knew I was wearing this? I don't know.
You don't think she'd be upset? She'd probably say you look very beautiful in it.
It's like steel.
You should put it back.
I think I'll keep it.
I'll buy you one of your own, if you'd like.
No.
I want this one.
She came into my bedroom.
She should know I came into hers.
Is your bed always so perfectly made? It's a habit I formed at military school.
What side of the bed does she sleep on? That side.
She can keep it.
Fits her better anyway.
Listen, Zoe Whatever just happened upstairs, whatever these past six months have been, can we agree that it is time to simplify? What does simple look like? We maintain our professional arrangement, as you suggested, which I will honor.
You still trust me? What choice do I have? You didn't hurt me or discard me like you said you would.
I'm glad I didn't have to.
Yes, we'll agree to simplify.
Good.
Sorry I'm a few minutes late, Frank.
Please, have a seat.
I have a pretty good idea why you asked for this meeting.
- Have you and the President had a chance to speak? - We have.
- Is he leaning one way or another? - He's torn.
- And what about you? - I'm a little less torn.
My instincts tell me it's a mistake.
You wanna convince me otherwise? Well, look, if your instincts tell you this is not the way to go, I'm not about to Frank, I'm gonna ask you two very direct questions, and I would appreciate direct answers.
When you got my son into college, were you anticipating a moment like this? I don't follow.
Honestly, Frank? Was I antici I would be happy to answer you directly if I knew what you were asking.
All right.
I will ask you my second question.
Do you want the Vice Presidency for yourself? I would serve at the pleasure of the President.
That was his you proposed this idea so that you can take Matthews' place.
- I did not say that.
- But it is what you want.
- What I want is in the - The President makes you v.
P.
, he keeps you on the ticket in 2016, and you use that as a springboard to run in 2020.
Tell me that trajectory has never entered your mind.
Well, Linda, I make a habit of considering all trajectories in any given situation.
But that's a practical exercise, not a personal one.
So you refuse to admit it.
Admit it's what I want? That's irrelevant.
You're the one who asked for this meeting, not me.
This meeting's about trying to solve a problem, not fulfill some personal ambition.
But if both could be achieved, you wouldn't object.
I think this is a sound course of action regardless of who the President taps to replace Matthews.
I must gamble everything I have right now.
If I'm honest, she may use it against me.
If I'm not, she won't lift a finger.
I've used the same tactic myself.
Once someone is exposed, they're at your mercy.
She wants to hear me say the words.
Yes.
I want to be the Vice President.
And, yes, I helped your son get into college in the hopes that you would return the favor.
But I can't force you to do so, Linda.
But I also think that we would make a formidable team.
Look what we've been able to accomplish even when we've been at odds with each other.
Now put your mind to what we could accomplish if we weren't.
Thank you for taking the time, Linda.
I'll call you back.
How'd it go? She's holding her cards very close to the chest.
- Any word from Peter? - Nothing.
Christina said he wouldn't leave the apartment.
But I called the doorman, and he said that Peter was gone.
- Where? - He doesn't know.
He needs to officially withdraw to put pressure on Walker.
- I'm trying to track him down.
- Why'd you let him out of your sight in the first place? I thought he was showering.
He disappeared when I was on the phone with you.
There was a plan here, Doug.
He explodes, he withdraws, we put him back together, and he quietly goes away.
Russo has made no public appearances since allegations that he was inebriated during a radio interview on WZPZ Pittsburgh yesterday morning.
Sources among the Democratic leadership have suggested that the party is currently considering options to replace Russo.
Meanwhile, Republican candidate Jack swofford's lead has jumped to a 24-point margin, according to an overnight CNN poll of registered voters.
The swofford campaign is also reporting a sharp spike in contributions nearly half a million dollars in the last 20 I saw that this morning.
Francis got Peter to run.
Do you know him well? We weren't close.
Do you need to make calls? 'Cause I can head into the other room.
I don't think so.
Thanks.
Where are you going? To the lab.
I should've gone in today.
Adam.
- Adam - Just go.
Go.
Leave.
How long do you think this can possibly go on for? We have never spent more than 48 hours together.
Maybe there's a reason for that.
A part of me still loves you.
Which part? I can't be just a pit stop, Claire, - or some sort of escape - Oh, come on.
You're more than that.
- or a top-up on whatever Francis can't provide.
- Oh, fuck off! He's my husband, Adam.
We've gone through more than you could ever imagine.
I envy your free spirit, and I'm attracted to it, but not all of us have that luxury.
Which is what I find so frustrating about you, Claire.
You you had a choice.
You chose not to be free.
No.
What I chose was a man I could love for more than a week.
I shouldn't have said that.
I At least you're being honest.
I can't live moment to moment like you, Adam.
I have a history with Francis, I have a future with him, and it's bigger than a moment.
Then you should kill it whatever part of you still loves me.
If you can't, I will.
- Adam - No.
- Hello? - Hey.
Hey, sweetie.
How's it going? I'm are you with your mom? She's downstairs.
You want me to go get her? No.
No.
I just wanted to call and say, uh, you know, hey to your uh, your brother and you.
Is he is he there? He's in his room, I think.
Okay.
You wanna go get him? Hold on.
He says he doesn't want to talk to you.
Wh why not? We've seen the news, dad.
There were all sorts of TV cameras at our school yesterday.
Mom's making us stay home this week.
I want you to do something.
I want you to go to, uh, your bedroom window and look out.
You see that black car? - Yeah.
- That's me.
You shouldn't be here, dad.
Mom would be really angry.
Well, we don't need to tell her.
Right? It'll just be it'll just be, uh it'll just be our little secret.
Your voice sounds weird, like it did on the radio.
You you heard that? I have a computer.
Uh, I'm sorry.
I Sometimes your dad makes mistakes.
- I better go.
- No.
I don't like to hear your voice when it's like this.
It makes me sad.
Bye, dad.
Sarah, please Peter? Christina.
Where are you? I'm, uh Mm.
I'm not I'm not I'm not doing so well.
Where are you, Peter? - I'm in my car.
- Are you driving? No.
Tell me where you are.
I'm outside my kids' house.
- You mean Madeleine's? - Yeah.
I need you to stay right there.
Okay, Peter? You'll stay there? Peter.
Peter, are you still there? Hello? Hello? I'd like to turn myself in.
For what? A few months ago, I was pulled over for drunk driving.
They let me go.
I should've been convicted.
Well, if you were let go, sir, we can't arrest you for it now.
Well, I drunk drove here.
Arrest me for that.
We can put you in a detox tank I wanna be formally arrested.
My name is congressman Peter Russo.
I was arrested in January on Michigan Avenue.
Please have a seat, Congressman.
I gotta make a few phone calls.
- Have you found him? - I'm in front of his ex-wife's house.
But Christina said he called from there.
- He's not there? - No.
But his phone is.
I found it by the curb.
So we have no way to contact him? Not unless he reaches out to us.
This isn't good.
Want me to alert the authorities? Let's give him a little longer.
- How long did it last? - About six months.
- He was older.
- A lot? Yeah.
Was he a journalist, or did he work on the hill? I'd rather not say.
All right.
He was someone I looked up to for a while.
Why did it end? He has a wife.
We both knew it was gonna end eventually.
I mean, it was really it was fucked up.
The first night we spent together, he told me he was gonna hurt me and then discard me.
And when it ended, I told him that he'd done neither.
But it does hurt.
I won't hurt you.
Yeah, you can't promise me that.
Yes, I can.
- Has anyone else seen him? - No.
He's in an interrogation room by himself.
I never should've got mixed up with this fucking mess.
We're way behind regret time, Barney.
Just have your guys keep him out of sight.
I'll need a back exit.
- I got him.
Thanks.
- Yeah.
Come on.
Hey, Peter.
Where's your car? It's down the street.
I'll drive you home.
You go back to mine, have Meechum let you in.
- This way? - Yeah.
What were you thinking, Peter? I need to take responsibility for my actions.
By getting yourself thrown in jail? Real responsibility.
Like like they talk about in the meetings, not the lies we told for the campaign.
What you just did was extremely reckless.
I don't care.
I'm making a statement tomorrow, Frank.
- About pulling out of the race? - Mm-mm.
That's not enough.
I I need to stop hiding.
Well, let's work together on the language.
I have to do it on my own.
It's gotta be my own words.
Look, Peter, this isn't just about you anymore, all right? - Let me help you.
- I don't want your help.
I didn't never ask your help when you I got arrested.
When did your help ever help me? You can live your life the way you want to.
I'm done being told how to live mine.
Well, there has to be a way to take responsibility without shattering everything.
Are you at least willing to have that discussion? - Do you want me to come upstairs? - No.
I know you're in a lot of pain, Peter.
But I don't want you to feel any pain tonight.
Here.
You can start fresh tomorrow.
Go ahead.
I won't judge you.
Hell, I'll even join you.
Just relax.
You're home now.
Whatever it is you have to face tomorrow, you don't have to face it now.
Right now it's just you and me.
The rest of the world doesn't matter.
Your children, Christina they will forgive you, because you're loved, Peter.
Failed.
I failed myself.
I failed my family.
I failed the campaign.
No, you haven't, Peter.
May I? You know, when Claire and I were first married, we talked about having children.
I told her flat out I didn't want any.
It was selfish but honest.
I didn't have a particularly happy childhood.
I suspect you didn't either.
No.
You see, no person avoids pain.
And I just didn't think it was right to bring a child in knowing that.
But now when I think back, I I realize that was cowardly.
I see you, and I think, well, there's a brave man, far braver than me.
I'm so tired.
When I when I think about when I I'm so tired.
You should close your eyes.
Let it all go.
We have all the time in the world.
Peter? Peter.
I walked back.
Whatever happens in the next few hours, whatever you hear, we will never speak of it.
Sir I heard from Linda about a half an hour ago.
The President wants to meet with you.
About what? I don't know.
Frank.
Now, when you brought up this idea, I wasn't sold.
It struck me as both desperate and careless.
But then Linda laid out all the pros, and they clearly outweigh the cons.
I explained our reasoning to Jim and hoped he wouldn't think I was off my rocker.
I did at first, but the President made some very good arguments.
It's a bold move, Frank.
I'm very impressed.
Well, thank you, sir, for being open to the idea.
And thank you, Mr.
President, for taking the risk.
We'll need to work this out step by step.
- The execution has to be perfect.
- Where are things with Russo? - Any word from him yet? - We're still trying to locate him.
- Well, is there any cause for worry? - It's been two days.
I am a bit worried, I have to admit.
I mean, this must be an extremely difficult moment for him.
We're hoping he'll reach out shortly.
Let's get our people on it.
I wanna know where he is.
Now, once he withdraws, we have to move quickly.
We'll make a joint statement, as you proposed.
It's a clear message, I think.
Pennsylvanians matter to us, and we're not gonna let them down.
That's right.
I'll say that Jim's an invaluable asset to the White House, but that I have great admiration for the sacrifice he's willing to make for the people of his home state.
And you should not accept his resignation until he's elected.
- That will show your continuing commitment to him.
- I think that's a good idea.
As long as I can devote myself wholly to the campaign, I agree.
Now, should Jim win, we'll need to nominate a Vice President immediately.
Linda, you're putting together a list of names? Yes.
And you can begin the vetting process as soon as you narrow down the choices.
I already have a short list of top contenders.
- I want your input on that, Jim.
- More than happy.
Congressman? Congressman? We can use the existing infrastructure.
Are you okay with Nash Aarons? I like Nash, but I'll want to bring in some of my own people.
Well, that won't be a problem.
Nash is a team player.
And we can reallocate some of your existing 2016 reelection funds Excuse me.
Linda.
Peter Russo is dead.
Suicide.
He was found in his garage with the car still running.
I'm so sorry, Frank.
- May I have a moment, sir? - Of course.
I will get more information and start drafting a statement.
Let's reschedule.
Whenever is best for Frank.
Congressman Peter Russo was found dead early this morning in the parking garage - why didn't we break this? - Of his apartment building in Washington D.
C.
U.
S.
Secret Service Agents discovered his body after reports - that Russo had been missing since Saturday.
- Fuck! His body was transferred to the D.
C.
coroner's office where an autopsy is expected to confirm his death as a suicide.
A junior congressman from Philadelphia - Zoe.
- Russo was 36 years old - Look at this.
- And is survived by two children.
- I gotta get to the office.
- Russo was in the midst of a heated battle for the governorship of Pennsylvania.
He was last heard publicly during a morning political radio show on Pittsburgh station WZPZ.
Now, during the interview, he slurred his words, he sounded disoriented - Christina.
- Leading many to believe - that he had relapsed - Can you get me a train back to D.
C.
? Right here on this TV station for all your late-breaking details about this major news story: The suicide of congressman Peter Russo.
I find it very difficult to express everything that I'm feeling right now, and I know Claire feels exactly the same.
Peter was very special to us.
A sort of magnetic presence that electrified everyone he touched.

Hey.
Excuse me.
I'm Paul Capra.
I'm here to see Christina.
Oh, right this way, Mr.
Capra.
She's expecting you.
- Paul.
- Hey, Christina.
Hi.
It's good to see you.
- Yeah, you too.
- Can I get you anything? Nah.
I grabbed some breakfast on the way down.
- Okay.
Have a seat.
- All right.
Thank you.
I asked you down here because I spoke to D-Trip and the D.
N.
C.
We'd like you to run for Peter's seat.
As you probably know, the election's been set for the first week of February.
You want me to run? With your stature in the community, your grass roots organizing experience Christina, hold on.
I know it's a lot to consider.
It's only been a month.
Well, we still have to govern, Paul.
I thought you asked me down here because you wanted to talk or something.
I do.
About the election.
I mean about Peter.
How come you didn't go to the funeral? I couldn't.
How you been holding up? I'm all right.
It's been hard keeping the office on track.
Jesus.
Screw the office.
What about you? You're allowed to grieve, Christina.
Paul there are 600,000 people counting on us.
I can't let my feelings get in the way of that.
Will you hear me out about running for Peter's seat? Well, you've passed the vetting process with flying colors.
- Is there anything we might have missed? - No, sir.
Tell me about your experience as the chair of the oversight reform committee.
It's been very rewarding.
What are the biggest challenges you've had to face? Partisanship.
Well, I suppose a room filled with 435 big egos isn't the most hospitable place for oversight.
Do you want to be Vice President, Tabitha? It would be a great honor, sir.
We'll be in touch.
- That's all? - Mm-hmm.
- For the time being.
- Thank you, Mr.
President.
We have to cross her off.
I agree.
She could put a crack addict to sleep.
Then what is she doing on the goddamn list? Tabitha's a very gifted legislator.
I don't want people who make sense on paper.
I need at least one viable option.
The two of you created this list and have proceeded to cross off every name you've put on it.
It's just a first pass, sir.
We need time to fully vet all Jim is gonna win this thing in Pennsylvania, and we're no closer to naming his replacement than we were a month ago.
Let us take another crack at it and give you a few more names to consider.
- I just want one name.
- We'll have something for you by tomorrow morning.
Thank you, Mr.
President.
He's ready to say yes to anything.
Yeah, for this to work, I don't think you can be there.
Not when I first mention it.
I agree.
You bring it up in your morning brief, and when I show up, I'll act surprised.
Assuming he's open to the idea.
Look, all we have to do tomorrow is plant the notion in his head.
I'm sure you'll be persuasive.
Hello? - Mr.
Capra? - Yeah.
Who's this? Janine Skorsky from Slugline.
We spoke when I wrote the piece about Congressman Russo's passing.
I'm done giving interviews about Peter, okay? He was a troubled guy.
End of story.
This is not about his death.
I'm calling you because my sources at the D Triple C are telling me that you might be running for his seat.
I'm not talking about that.
But you did have a meeting this morning with Christina Gallagher, correct? I'm driving right now.
I really shouldn't be on the phone.
If you do run, I would like to know about your involvement in the closing of the Philadelphia shipyard.
That decision was made in Washington.
The association wasn't consulted.
Forgive me.
I find that hard to believe.
I read all of the transcripts from the brac commission.
Congressman Russo didn't give any testimony.
So are you saying that he didn't consult with you once before you somebody was strong-arming him, okay? It was politics.
Do you know who would've pressured him? Look, I don't know.
He just said people up the food chain.
Did he say anything more specific about you know what? There's traffic.
I gotta go.
Mr.
Capra, I would Should I be prepared to do press? If he's amenable.
What do you think our chances are? Better than 50-50, if I had to say.
We won't announce until after Matthews wins, though.
I hate to admit it, but I'm nervous.
So am I.
It's just the last time, we found ourselves that's my fear too.
All right.
You call me, either way.
In no more than nine hours.
Linda's been in there far too long.
If the President takes this much convincing, it doesn't bode well.
I can feel it his hesitation on the other side of that door.
I know it's pointless to worry until I know what cards I'm holding.
Perhaps he just got interrupted by some He wants to tap Raymond Tusk.
- What? - He thinks it's a bold idea.
It's an idiotic idea.
The man's never held public office.
That's one of the things the President said he likes about him.
The President wants to nominate a multibillionaire in a struggling economy? - He'll alienate half the country.
- Which is exactly what I said, but he made it very clear he does not want me to fight him on this.
- So you didn't mention me at all? - I never had the chance.
His mind was made up before I could say a word.
Well, we have to unmake it.
Well, you can try, but if you do, my guess is he's gonna cut you out of the process altogether.
He seemed adamant.
We should go in there.
- Mr.
President.
- Morning, Frank.
Will you give us a few minutes, Linda? Of course.
Linda fill you in? I think Raymond Tusk is an exciting, bold idea.
Well, I'm glad you agree.
Linda didn't think so.
He's a proven businessman.
Brilliant, but down-to-earth.
Do you know him personally? I met him briefly once at a fund-raiser.
Last night when I called him was the first time we had a meaningful conversation.
Did he seem open to the idea? I sensed a good deal of reluctance.
He wanted a few days to consider.
Well, good.
That gives us time to start vetting him.
He's clean.
I had him vetted last year when I was considering him for secretary of the treasury.
And did he say why he's reluctant? No.
Didn't give a reason.
Just wanted to mull it over.
I want to send someone to St.
Louis to speak to him in person, convince him to accept the nomination.
And who are you thinking about? I'd send Linda, but there's so much work for her to do here, and, well, she can be abrasive at times.
Yeah, she can be a bit tough.
I want someone with gravitas.
Birch is a possibility, but he's not always been our strongest ally.
I'm not sure I would trust Bob with something like this.
I would be happy to go myself, sir.
I can use a light touch and give him the respect he deserves.
Good.
I'll let his people know you're coming.
- Thank you, Mr.
President.
- Thank you, Frank.
Tell me, Francis.
It's good we were prepared for anything.
I have to fly to St.
Louis tonight.
"Somebody was strong-arming him," and when I asked him who, he said, quote, - "people up the food chain.
" - It's Washington.
Congressmen get strong-armed all the time.
My gut says it was Frank Underwood.
He had nothing to do with Russo before the shipyard closing, and then suddenly he's propping him up? That doesn't mean he was Let's cut the bullshit once and for all, Zoe.
I know he's been feeding you your stories.
I don't want to screw you over, but I'm not gonna stop digging on this.
I won't say he was a source.
But you do know each other.
Show me your notes, and I'll talk to him.
These are the notes from the Capra call.
And these are the transcripts from the brac hearing.
When they got to the Philadelphia shipyard, Russo doesn't say anything.
That's fine.
Yeah, I would just put both of them in that file.
Claire, I just got a call from the P.
R.
office at Sancorp saying they wanted to send a film crew to take footage of our filtration project in Botswana.
Right.
They're just using that for promotional material.
Sancorp fought us on the watershed bill.
They helped us get the filters out of South Sudan.
I thought that was the state department.
No.
You remember Remy Danton? You met him in your office right after you started working here.
- The lobbyist.
- I asked him for his help.
We're just returning the favor, that's all.
Claire, they're against everything we stand for.
It's harmless.
They'll send the video to a few of their investors and make some commercials.
This makes me very uncomfortable the idea they are sending the film crew, Gillian, so please work with them on that.
One of my colleagues is looking into Peter Russo.
The assumption is you strong-armed him into closing the shipyard.
Where does your colleague get their information? I don't know.
Allocating the D.
O.
D.
budget is always a free-for-all.
Did you pressure him? There were certain people that were gonna benefit from the base closing sooner rather than later.
I didn't strong-arm Peter.
I advised him to trade in a losing hand for a winning one.
How did he stand to win? He made allies out of enemies.
That's a very valuable thing in Congress.
I wish I could give you something juicier, but the shipyard closing was just politics as usual.
I assume your colleague is Ms.
Skorsky.
Does she know we're talking? No.
Of course not.
Be in touch.
More than you ever wanted to know about Raymond Alan Tusk the companies he controls, political contributions.
A GQ article entitled "Backwoods billionaire" is about his humble midwestern lifestyle.
- Jesus.
- There's also a copy of the financial disclosure requirements and details of the blind trust.
I think the trust is where you want to focus.
Could Linda be behind all this? To what end? To get you out of town for a few days while they continue the search without your interference.
The President has no reason to mistrust me.
Unless Linda told him you want the vice presidency.
No.
She's in way too deep.
We misjudged her on the secretary of state nomination.
That was different.
She blindsided me.
Now she knows my eyes are wide open.
Do you want the gaffney bag or regular business? Regular business.
Tusk can dress down if he wants to, but I'm representing the White House.
Oh, and get Walter Doyle onto Tusk.
- Let's see if we can dig up anything.
- I'll call him right now.
And keep your eye on Janine Skorsky while I'm away.
She's been prying into Russo.
- What does she know? - She knows the right questions to ask.
I want to make sure she doesn't get the right answers.
I'm on it.
McCuddin.
McCuddin.
What was that? Mccuddin Air Force Base.
Brac hearing.
Was there on April 12th.
David Rasmussen stepped down less than a week later.
Womack takes his place.
So maybe Wait.
Slow down.
McCuddin is in his district.
Is that the shipyard thing? Janine, call me back.
I think it was Womack who pressured Russo.
Russo was probably just earning a favor he could cash in later.
I'm around.
Did you ever have to fight her to kill a story? - Janine? - Yeah.
When she worked for you.
Only when I knew she was wrong.
She's trying to draw up this whole conspiracy thing with Russo and Frank Underwood and the whole shipyard closing.
But I'm pretty sure she's wrong.
Pretty sure isn't the same as certain.
- No.
I am certain.
- How do you know? - I have sources.
- Underwood? No.
No.
Never mind.
I'll figure it out.
- Mrs.
Tusk? - Jean, please.
You must be Frank.
Come in.
So nice to meet you.
The guest room is this way.
It is very kind of you to have invited me to stay here.
Why waste the taxpayers' money on a hotel when we have a perfectly good bed? Well, both they and I are very grateful.
I'm sorry Raymond isn't awake to greet you.
- He goes to bed at - I know he's an early riser.
I understand.
Would you like a wake-up knock? No.
I have an alarm on my phone.
Sleep tight.
Thank you so much.
I would say good morning, but it's the middle of the night.
- It's a pleasure to meet you.
- And you too.
Was I making too much noise? No.
I smelled bacon.
Here.
Coffee? Booze? At 2:00 A.
M.
, you can go either way.
Just water for now.
It's filtered.
Your wife would approve.
You ever been to St.
Louis before? Just the airport.
What do you think so far? Well, I've only seen your neighborhood and whatever I could see out the window on the interstate.
Good enough.
It's all pretty much the same.
Excuse me.
Listen, um, I still haven't showered.
My mind is on China here.
Uh, what do you say you get a few more zs and we try this again in a few hours with our clothes on? Sounds like a plan.
Meet me at my office at 9:30.
I'll have a driver pick you up.
Can I ask why you do that? - Do what? - Tap your ring like that.
I've seen you do it on TV.
Two taps every time you get up from a table or leave a lectern.
Something my father taught me.
It's meant to harden your knuckles so you don't break them if you get into a fight.
It also has the added benefit of knocking on wood.
My father believed that success is a mixture of preparation and luck.
Tapping the table kills both birds with one stone.
Your father was a peach farmer? Yes, he was.
Not a very successful one.
- Lack of preparation or lack of luck? - Lack of both.
He was better at giving advice than following it.
Hmm.
Miss? Miss, your card.
Thank you.
Ms.
Gallagher, my name's Janine Skorsky.
I'm a reporter at Slugline.
- I wrote the profile on Congressman - I remember.
- Do you have a minute? - If this is about Peter, I No.
It's about Paul Capra.
We know that he might be running for Congressman Russo's old seat.
I can't comment on that.
We're just trying to do some background on the shipyard closing last April.
Listen, I just want to eat my breakfast.
We have sources that are saying that the Congressman was being pressured by someone to not fight the closure.
- Who? - That's what I'm trying to figure out.
This is completely off the record, I promise you.
- Hi, Christina.
- Doug, hi.
- How you holding up? - I'm okay.
I'm I'm good.
I saw you sitting over here.
You mind if I No.
Please.
Ms.
Skorsky, right? I believe we spoke a few times when you used to work at the herald.
Whenever I could get past the press office gauntlet to you.
- We do like to run a tight ship.
- Mm.
So what brings you to the capitol? I was just asking Ms.
Gallagher who's running to fill the vacant seat in Pennsylvania's 1st.
Well, the honest answer is we don't know.
Thank you for your time, Ms.
Gallagher.
Anyone starts harassing you with questions you don't want to answer, you let me know.
I'll handle them.
You got enough on your plate right now.
Thanks, Doug.
I appreciate that.
Hang in there, okay? Yes.
Ah.
Uganda, Peru, Nepal, Indonesia Nicaragua.
Well, you are quite the well traveled man.
No.
I'm the man who stays at home.
Jean brought those back for me.
- Mr.
Tusk, I am - First names.
After all, we have broken bacon together.
We can safely assume that we're familiar.
Raymond, I realize that you are a very busy man, so I'm gonna cut right to the chase.
The President sincerely would like you to become the next Vice President.
That part I already knew.
And I'm here to convince you to say yes.
Another thing I already knew.
Well, I don't know that I can tell you anything you don't already know.
But perhaps you can tell me what your hesitation is.
Speak.
Yes.
Now, I understand you might have some concerns about the financial disclosures leading Speak.
No.
I have eight people representing me at eight simultaneous meetings in six time zones right now.
I sit here and answer their questions, provided they come in the form of a single yes or no proposition.
Well, then, let me give that a try.
Would you like to be the Vice President? Yes or no? Hold on a minute.
I am very sorry.
Let me have 20 minutes to wrap up these meetings.
And then what do you say we get out of the office and away from this damn phone? Meet me at my car.
Betty can tell you where it's parked.
Go ahead.
He's deflecting.
What I can't tell is whether it's because he's inclined to say no or wants to be wooed to say yes.
Either way, I'll have to ease him into the conversation, not be so blunt.
This trip may take longer than I thought.
We've looked through all the file cabinets.
They're not on his computer? Not with the Congressman's handwritten notes.
All right.
I'll check his office.
Ah.
There is a comfort to these woods.
Like they're my backyard.
Well, they are my backyard, in a way.
I own them.
How much land? Six thousand acres.
You think I could get a tour of your fulton plant while I'm in town? If you'd like.
But I don't know why you'd want to be there when you could be out here.
I've never seen a nuclear plant.
Not much to see.
Steel, concrete, a lot of steam.
The President hasn't exactly been a big supporter of nuclear power.
Is that, uh, part of your hesitation that fear that the administration He's just being savvy.
Nuclear energy is a tough sell after Japan.
But it's the only option we have right now that doesn't completely trash the planet.
The argument against nuclear power is an emotional one.
And you don't make decisions based on emotion.
Decisions based on emotion aren't decisions at all.
They're instincts, which can be of value.
The rational and the irrational complement each other.
Individually, they're far less powerful.
And which category do your thoughts on the vice presidency fall into? Do you hear that song? It's a hermit thrush.
Can't see him.
"Solitary, the thrush" "The hermit, withdrawn to himself, avoiding the settlements, sings by himself a song.
" - Do you know the poem? - No, I don't.
It's Walt Whitman.
It's about the death of Abraham Lincoln.
He's over there somewhere.
Yes, I know the damn poem.
We studied it at the Sentinel.
I said to my Professor, "why mourn the death of Presidents, or anyone for that matter? The dead can't hear us.
" And he asked me if I believed in heaven.
I said no.
And then he asked if I had no faith in God.
I said, "you have it wrong.
It's God who has no faith in us.
" Deeper into the woods.
I think you're being paranoid.
He came up right after I sat down.
It was creepy.
- I'm telling you, it was womack.
- Is that what Underwood said? He didn't name names.
But who else? What's the big deal? Congressmen trade favors.
One of these congressmen committed suicide.
I think you're stretching here, Janine.
To try and connect I have gone after big fish before.
I know what it feels like to be watched.
Underwood's education bill went to the floor just three days after womack became majority leader.
You leaked the education bill.
And then there was the Kern article.
- Those were two completely different stories.
- Wait.
What was the guy? Uh, what was his name? He's the one who told that Kern wrote the article for the school paper.
- Roy Kapeniak.
- You should go talk to him.
- There's no link.
- Except you.
Underwood's been using you, Zoe.
Don't you want to know why? Hi.
Remy Danton's on line two.
He says it's important.
- Hello, Remy.
- Hey, Claire.
I got a call from the P.
R.
team at Sancorp.
They said Gillian Cole isn't being cooperative.
Hasn't gotten back to them, you mean? No.
Told them point-blank she doesn't want the film crew there.
I'm looking at an e-mail.
She wrote that they would be disruptive to the project and local community.
Is that her, or is that coming from you? No.
I made it very clear that I wanted her to work with them.
Well, it seems like she's doing the opposite.
I will speak to her, and then I'll sort things out with the P.
R.
team personally.
- Thank you, Claire.
- You bet.
Is Gillian at lunch? She didn't come in yet today.
She's not feeling well.
Let me know when she gets here.
- What time is your flight? - 6:40.
We should get going.
There's gonna be traffic.
Almost ready.
I've been thinking.
The, uh, older man you were with.
Was it Underwood? So, what this is really about is covering your own ass.
- That is not true.
- You don't want anybody to know you were sleeping with him.
Not exactly objective reporting, is it? Don't fucking lecture me on journalistic ethics.
How many of the stories you brought me at the herald were because you were I'm not gonna have this conversation.
Fine.
Maybe you should take a cab to the airport.
Don't punish me for being honest.
You haven't been honest.
I had to ask.
- And you still haven't given me a straight answer.
- Yes.
It was him.
I I don't know if I can do this, Zoe.
- Do what? - You fucked a Congressman to get ahead.
I'm not the first person to ever do something like that, Lucas.
But I'm not sleeping with those other people, am I? What, so you just hate me now? No.
I probably love you.
That's the fucking problem.
Let's go.
I'm parked illegally.
So I hear you went stomping through the woods today.
We did, and then Raymond was kind enough to arrange a tour of the fulton plant.
And I'm sure you were wondering, "when is this old fool gonna get around to brass tacks?" I'm here to simply answer questions.
I figured that you would make up your mind when you're ready.
There are two minds here.
We know all about the blind trust.
Does it concern either of you? The words "blind" and "trust" are not among my favorites in the English language.
But I have no problem with it in theory.
Not managing our assets for a few years could unburden us from a great deal of stress.
Well, then, what does your reluctance stem from? Why do you think the President wants me? Well, I can't speak on his behalf, but if I were to Aren't you here to do just that speak on his behalf? If I were to speculate, I think the President would prob Speculation is a poor form of investment and an equally poor form of politics.
Tell me what you know.
I don't know what you mean.
Well, what do you think I should do? You, personally, Frank Underwood? My opinion isn't what matters here.
It does to me.
Should I do it? Yes or no? Well, there's a great number of things to consider And I'm sure you've considered them all.
Yes or no, Frank? No, I will not answer that question.
- Because you think I shouldn't.
- Because it's not relevant.
All right, then.
Let me ask you another way.
- Would you take the job? - It hasn't been offered to me.
What if it were? I have a distaste for hypotheticals just the same as you have a distaste for speculation.
All right, all right.
That's enough business for now.
We can discuss it more tomorrow.
Oh! Get in.
Get in there, Bruce.
Sorry.
Sorry to bother you, ma'am.
Um, I'm looking for Roy Kapeniak.
I thought his trailer was over here.
Am I in the right place? You're in the right place a month ago.
He got evicted.
He was shootin' off his gun too much in the yard.
- Do you know where I can find him? - Why? I'm a relative.
His his niece.
Skipped town is what I heard.
Had a girl livin' with him.
Maybe she knows.
- Name was Echo.
- Echo? That's what she went by, at least.
Works at the titty bar over on 40.
- Highway 40? - Mm.
Across from the Burger King.
Okay.
Thank you.
- Girls get in free.
- Oh.
- I'm looking for Echo.
- Who? Echo.
Roy was a fucking wacko.
I was stupid to live with him as long as I did.
- Do you know where he is now? - I don't know, and I don't care.
He ever talk about the article I wrote? All the time.
He had it framed.
Bet it's still in the trailer if it's not in a junkyard right now.
Did he say why he called me? - Did he ever tell you? - I was there.
- Where? - When the guy showed up.
Who? I won't name names.
Fuck Roy Kapeniak.
You don't owe him shit.
Some guy who said he was a Congressman.
Was it Him? No.
He was younger, tall, not much hair, pretty good-looking.
- Yeah, that was him.
- You're absolutely sure? He brought bourbon, blow, stayed the whole night.
The whole thing was his idea.
What, to say that Kern wrote the editorial? That guy didn't write anything.
It was all Roy.
Okay, look, I know I said that I wouldn't name names, and I won't if that's what you want.
But you could be famous overnight.
- Talk shows, TV, the whole country - No way.
You wouldn't have to dance anymore.
You could do whatever you want.
Don't use my fucking name, okay? I already said more than I should have.
- Stamper, it's midnight.
- Two things, boss.
First, Janine Skorsky ambushed Christina this morning.
I intercepted her before she could ask too much.
- Should we be worried? - I can keep this contained, sir.
- I just wanted you to know.
- All right.
What's the other thing? Doyle came back with his research.
I just e-mailed it to you.
The President told you he and Tusk didn't know each other, right? Yeah.
He said they met once, I think, at a fund-raiser.
That would appear to be a lie.
All right.
I have it in front of me now.
Doyle catalogued all the instances he could find in which the two of them were in the same city at the same time.
Items in red are events that they both attended.
And he found something else.
Back in Walker's private sector days, he was the C.
E.
O.
of Pioneer Airlines.
Guess who owned a third of the stock when it was sold to united? Raymond Tusk.
My guess is that he and Walker know each other quite well.
All right.
Let me look this over.
I'll call you back.
I'm being played.
But why? - Did I wake you again? - No.
I'd like to talk.
Give me a moment.
Carolina Parakeet.
You're wrong, but you're close.
This is the Sun Conure.
They look very similar, but the Carolina Parakeet is extinct.
Was killed off because it was considered a pest.
Interesting species, though.
Voracious appetite.
And he was poison.
Cats who ate him died.
This bird is not the only thing you've misidentified since you've been in St.
Louis.
You and Walker are old friends.
I wasn't sent here to vet you.
Very good.
Tell me why I am here, then.
So I can vet you.
For the vice presidency? The President values my advice, and he tends to follow it.
Like when I advised him not to make you Secretary of State.
That was very bad advice.
Yes, it was.
One of the larger mistakes I've made, and I very rarely make mistakes of any size.
You've proven yourself to be quite difficult.
Kern, the teachers' strike, now Matthews.
You attribute all that to me? If I had to guess.
A smart man once said to me that speculation is a poor form of politics.
Why don't you stick to what you know, Raymond? What I know is you are extremely effective at what you set your mind to.
That is valuable to me, and I've already told Garrett that it could be valuable to him somebody at his side with one foot in the executive branch and one in the legislative.
He is very open to the idea.
My turn to speculate.
Your recommendation comes at a price.
Fact.
I have something that you want.
You have something that I want.
Have I said something amusing? Oh, I've just sat too many times on your side of the table not to enjoy the irony of finding myself on this side of it.
Would you like to hear what I want? I don't shackle myself to people I don't know.
What I want is one favor.
One and only one.
Which is? I need to be certain you'll grant it before I'll take the risk of being more specific.
A blank check.
Of sorts.
You would never grant anyone a blank check.
No.
But I'm not sitting on that side of the table.
We still believe in handshakes where I come from.
Do they still mean anything in Washington? - Who are you calling? - Car service to get me to the airport.
Frank, I will tell the President that I want until Friday to think things over before I make my recommendation.
Let me know if you change your mind.
And let me arrange the car for you.
Hi.
I'd like to arrange a car, please.
- How are you feeling? - Better than yesterday.
But I might take off early if, uh, the nausea comes back.
I find it interesting that you stay home the day after you blow off the sancorp people.
You weren't feeling sick, Gillian.
I find it extremely offensive that you'd accuse me of hiding behind my pregnancy.
You knew what I wanted.
The Botswana project is mine.
Under my umbrella, using money I raised.
You promised me autonomy.
Um, excuse us for a moment, please.
I promised to empower you.
That's not the same thing as you doing as you choose without consulting me.
I'm not gonna allow a project I've put almost three years of my life into your project wouldn't be happening if it weren't for sancorp.
I didn't ask for their help.
How about consulting me before you struck a deal? Let's get something very clear.
I run the organization.
You work for it.
Our agreement is an affiliation, Claire.
- Worldwell isn't your vassal.
- Yes, it is, entirely, if we're going to be blunt about it.
That's not what you proposed six months ago.
It's what you signed up for when you signed the contract.
There was a good faith understanding that And you dissolved that good faith by disobeying me.
- Disobeying you? - Yes.
I threaten you, don't I? Nothing about you threatens me.
But maybe you should take a leave of absence.
Are you firing me? That's up to you, but right now you should leave.
Did you get her on record? No.
She wouldn't talk to me otherwise.
We need hard proof that Underwood was behind it.
This whole thing is making me really nervous.
That you'll be exposed? Not that.
It's Francis.
If this really goes as deep as we think, and he's already watching you - You think he's dangerous? - I know he is.
Then that's why we have to keep going.
He crushes people - Hey, Callum.
- Hey.
Look, if you weren't afraid, you wouldn't be doing your job.
The only articles that I have ever written that truly mattered scared the shit out of me.
We need to know about anything that might've happened with Russo.
Something Underwood could have held over him.
We have to go back to Christina Gallagher, see if she'll give us something.
It can't be me.
If I go back for a second time I'll do it.
You honestly had no idea that the President and Tusk were close? He never showed up once on any call sheet, phone log or schedule during the campaign or since we've been in office.
I'd love to believe you, Linda, but I'm finding it very difficult.
What would I gain by keeping you in the dark? I am as shocked as you are, Frank.
Well, don't let on that you know.
- Of course not.
- What's the President saying? He wants to meet with you Tuesday to get your report on Tusk.
- That's a farce.
- Should I come up with a reason to delay the meeting? - No.
Maybe we'll learn something.
What time? - 2:00 P.
M.
All right.
I'll be there.
Thank you, Linda.
- We have one week.
- To accomplish what exactly? To force Tusk's hand.
He wants me beholden to him? No.
We have to make him come crawling to me.
What's his weakness? His fortune.
Wouldn't you say that's his strength? Not if it's slipping away.
- How do you make 40 billion disappear overnight? - We can't.
But maybe we can create the illusion that it's in danger.
The brief you gave me on his assets.
How much of his total net worth is in nuclear power? About a third.
Sixteen reactors here in the states, 37 worldwide.
Well, that's what we hit him with.
We go after his nuclear interests.
Even so, he's got 25 billion in other investments.
Doug, this is a man who built his fortune from nothing.
The money doesn't mean anything to him.
It's what it represents.
- Which is what? - His life's work.
Get Remy Danton on the phone.
Set up a meeting as quickly as you can.
You got it.
Tusk understands the difference between power and money.
That's precisely what makes him dangerous.
He doesn't measure his wealth in private jets but purchased souls.
I've worked too hard to get within arm's reach of the prize only to have my hand cut off just before I seize it.
Zoe Barnes, here to see Christina Gallagher.
I'm sorry.
I don't see an appointment.
Oh, there must be a mistake.
I have an 11:30.
One second.
My name is Zoe Barnes.
I work at Slugline.
You spoke to my colleague Janine Skorsky.
- Miss - Oh, we're fine, thanks.
You can't just come in here there are things you don't know about Peter.
- I wrote the article about Roy Kapeniak.
- Please leave.
Right now.
It was Peter who convinced him to talk to me.
What? I don't I don't understand.
- Why would he - Somebody pressured him to do it.
The night of January 24th.
That's when he went to speak to Kapeniak.
Do you remember anything strange around the time of the inauguration? - Anything that could have been held over him? - No, I don't.
If he was mixed up in things that in any way contributed to his suicide, wouldn't you want to know? I'm not trying to cause you any more pain.
I just want the truth.
And you deserve that more than anyone.
- What was the date? - The 24th of January.

What was that? The faucet.
It wouldn't shut up.
- Did you sleep last night? - No.
I'll call Nancy and tell her to call a plumber.
Absolute discretion.
Can I count on that? - Always.
- Raymond Tusk.
The President wants to tap him as the new V.
P.
- You and I cannot let that happen.
- Why not? Because a third of his fortune is tied up in nuclear energy.
Sancorp does not want a pro-nuclear businessman in the White House.
The market is shifting toward natural gas anyway.
But Tusk wants to stall that shift or reverse it.
Vice President doesn't have that kind of influence.
This one would.
He and Walker are very close.
And it's in neither of our best interests to seep Sancorp's position in the marketplace diminished.
- What's the ask? - Tusk won't accept the nomination if he thinks his holdings are at risk.
Sancorp needs to initiate a hostile takeover.
He's worth three times what sancorp is.
I'm talking about the subsidiaries.
We go after the companies that refine and ship the uranium, - the support system that - Come on, Frank.
There's stockholders to take into account, a huge financial exposure.
We just need to distract him.
Send a few token salvos and intimate there's more to come.
All I'm asking is that you speak to your client and see if this is something they might be willing to consider.
The President announces Tusk on Friday, so we don't have a lot of time.
- I'll make some calls.
- Thank you, Remy.
If he doesn't deliver, I'm an invader without an army.
If he does, I've got a fighting chance.
I just didn't feel that we could work together constructively any longer.
I think that's a perfectly legitimate reason Of course it is.
But what you can't do is fire someone for being pregnant.
Is that what she's saying? Ms.
Cole claims that you said, quote, "I need employees, not mothers," and, quote, "go focus on your baby.
" Can I see that? That's completely false.
I - I never said that.
- She claims you did.
It's her word against mine, right? Well, juries are very sympathetic with expecting mothers.
This is extortion.
We don't want this going to trial, Claire.
You and your husband are public figures.
This will result in some very bad press.
I suggest we go back to them with a settlement offer.
- We need the arrest record.
- There isn't any.
- They let him go.
- Then we need to know who got him off.
If Underwood was involved, we are talking abuse of powers and corruption.
I checked.
There's no files, no mug shot, nothing.
Then we need to find the cop who pulled him over, or somebody who saw him come into the station.
But D.
C.
cops they look after each other.
We need to be careful.
Do you have any sources on the force? Not that I would trust with something like this.
You know, Lucas started out on the crime beat.
I can see if he knows anyone.
- Would he help us? - I don't know.
- Maybe.
- Help out a competitor? We stayed in touch.
You've gotta be kidding me.
This town is way too incestuous.
I know it's a lot to ask.
I'm still trying to wrap my head around the affair, Zoe.
If you could just give me a contact and maybe vouch for me Did you wait to bring this up until now because you thought it'd be harder for me to say no? - What do you mean? - In bed, right after we You don't actually think I would do something like - It sure seems that way.
- This is huge, Lucas.
I'm trying to avoid fucking up what we have Whatever that is and you're making it really hard for me.
I don't know that I'll ever be the kind of person that makes it easy.
I'm not looking for easy.
But I don't need to be reminded of him.
- I can't erase what I did.
- I know you can't.
But this is really fucking manipulative.
Did you mean what you said the other night? That you probably I don't know what to do when I hear something like that.
That's why I was so quiet when you drove me to the airport.
I was angry.
I just blurted it out.
I wish I hadn't.
At least not like that.
I'm not trying to take advantage of you because you did.
- He hasn't said a word.
- And you haven't brought it up? I just asked him if he was still considering Tusk.
He said yes, but that he wanted to speak to you first.
That's it.
I wish we knew if they'd spoken at all.
Well, he has a private line.
I can't track those calls.
- Frank.
- Mr.
President.
Tell me about St.
Louis.
He's a hard man to read.
I did my best to probe him, but I don't think I left any wiser to which way he's leaning.
I must say, though, I think he is by far and away the best candidate.
Why do you say that? Doesn't it make sense for you to nominate someone you know so well? I don't know him.
That's why I sent you to St.
Louis.
Forgive me, Mr.
President.
I didn't mean it that way.
I meant that the world knows so well.
You, me, everyone knows Raymond Tusk.
We don't need to convince anyone of his worthiness.
But you said he still seems ambivalent? Which is why I think you should make a personal overture.
Invite him to the White House.
Well, I don't want to appear desperate.
I agree with Frank.
Inviting him is a very good idea.
If you're serious about Tusk, you should wine and dine him.
Make him feel very special.
I'm sure we can find time in the schedule.
- Let's give him a few more days.
- We have less than a week, sir.
I wouldn't wait any later than Friday.
We can make Friday work, sir.
All right.
Well, let's see if he's available.
- What are you doing? - Shh.
- Give me your phone.
- Why? Just give it to me.
Have you noticed anything weird in here? Stuff moved around? Anything missing? - No.
- Anyone following you? What did you find out? This is serious, Zoe.
It goes way up, as high as the commissioner.
I had to beg my contact at Metro to give me this.
No record of Russo getting pulled over, but he remembers there was a call girl brought in with Russo.
That's a file on one of her previous arrests.
I've investigated police cover-ups before.
I got death threats for a year.
Are you willing to take that risk? Yeah.
How long? The next board of directors meeting is three weeks from now.
That is too late.
Remy, look, the President is gonna nominate Tusk in a week or less.
I've urged Scott Cunningham to call a special meeting, but that doesn't happen overnight.
There's a lot of machinery in a corporate attack like this.
I want to meet Scott Cunningham myself.
I'm not sitting you down with Scott.
You know the rules.
These are extraordinary circumstances.
Frank, Sancorp's officers do not meet with politicians, period.
You talk to me, I talk to Scott Cunningham, and vice versa.
That's how it works.
All right, Remy.
Whatever you think best.
I'll call you when I know more.
Nancy! Of all the things I hold in high regard, rules are not one of them.
I will not place my fate solely in the hands of the middleman if I can go directly to the supplier.
Book a flight to Atlanta.
Tomorrow morning.
Let Meechum know.
Yes, sir.
She grew up in Lynchburg, Virginia, went to Lorimer High School until she dropped out sophomore year, and then after that, there's no public record.
But all it says here is that she was fined $300 for loitering on April 2012.
One of us has to go to Lynchburg.
- Parents, classmates, teachers - I'll do it.
Okay.
Well, then, you and I have to call escort services.
I'm willing to lend a hand, but not by making cold calls 12 hours a day just to get hung up on by hookers.
Where was she arrested? - Connecticut ave.
- 2460.
That's the address of the district grand hotel.
I'm not a fan of surprise visits, Frank.
Remy wouldn't arrange a meeting.
Remy Danton exists so we don't have to meet.
I needed to speak with you.
There's a congressional travel report that puts you on a trip to Atlanta the same day I was pulled out of an investors' briefing.
Those are the sort of coincidences we want to avoid.
Were you briefing your investors on Raymond Tusk? Meechum can be trusted.
Why would I be speaking to them about Tusk? - I thought Remy filled you in.
- No.
He didn't say anything about the vice presidential nomination? He didn't.
And I have a feeling I'd rather not be told.
Trust me, you want to know.
I've appeared in front of grand juries before, Frank.
It's much easier when you can tell the truth.
Please, don't put me in a position where I have to lie.
If Tusk has the President's ear, you will see this administration shift its support toward nuclear energy and away from natural gas.
His subsidiaries and his suppliers.
Go after them.
Frank, we should end this conversation right now.
He will not accept the nomination if his assets are in a blind trust and he can't fight off the threat.
- Okay, we're done.
- Scott I don't wanna hear another word.
Go back to the airport.
Figure out a good reason you needed to be in Atlanta today.
You can pull over at the next corner.
I'll have my car pick me up.
When sunny gets blue Her eyes get gray and cloudy - One last one? - Another.
Begins to fall Pitter-patter, pitter-patter Love is gone, so - Can I get you something? - White wine.
Put that on my tab.
- Thank you.
- My pleasure.
They're about to call last call.
That's all right.
I don't have much of a tolerance.
One more? No.
I'm good.
Hey.
You should head upstairs.
I was waiting for you.
- Is that the new faucet? - Yeah.
How'd it go? Not good.
Remy's up to something.
He's not returning my phone calls.
What can I do? Tell me what you were dreaming.
Oh, it was so awful, Francis.
He's not letting me sleep either.
Yeah.
It's not him.
It's the kids.
I was playing with them in the backyard, and the girl was climbing on the vines, and I kept telling her to stop and get down, and The vines just took hold of her, and they wouldn't let go.
And she was screaming so loud, and I just kept pulling harder and harder, and she just ripped in half.
Come here.
Come here.
Okay.
Oh! Jesus! You wait until after 2:00 in the morning to return my call? You trying to get my voice-mail? The conversations we're having we can't be having on cell phones.
Where are you? Claire is sleeping upstairs.
You shouldn't have gone to see Cunningham.
He says you didn't bring up Tusk.
You really think he'd admit to that? If we go through with this, it's insider trading.
He didn't strike me as a man hearing the news for the second time.
You want to believe I'm playing games? I can walk away from the whole thing.
But I'm all you've got right now.
I'm the one doing you and Sancorp a favor, not the other way around.
I can tell when I'm being used, Frank.
- I just want to know what for.
- I don't use people unless I can throw them away afterwards.
I'm trying to strengthen our partnership.
Smells an awful lot like bullshit.
Don't condescend.
Eight years I worked on your staff and never once made it further than your front doorstep.
Well, now I'm in your living room, Frank.
It's not because of what you taught me, it's because I finally woke up to what my value is and how undervalued I was slaving away for you.
This is business.
Keep your sob story to yourself.
I want to maintain the influence that I have worked to achieve in the White House, which translates into the influence that you have in the White House, through me.
I'll get in touch with Scott again tomorrow.
See if we can push this forward faster.
Thank you, Remy.
But you gotta let me do this my way.
The message was very clear.
She doesn't want a settlement, no matter what the figure.
Even if we give her worldwell back? She wants to go to court.
They said we can expect a formal summons next week.
- This is ludicrous.
- Her lawyers agree.
They'd much prefer a settlement too, but she's not playing ball.
I'll keep pushing them.
But in the meantime, you should start gathering all the correspondence you ever had with her E-mails, notes, every scrap of paper.
Okay.
Thanks, Oliver.
All I'm trying to do is find her.
I've got an arrest record from April 2012, and I know she was pulled over with a client in January.
That girl.
She had so much potential.
Why did she drop out? Like I said, it's an ethical breach for me to discuss anything that has to do I spoke to her parents.
Her father was very combative.
Was there trouble at home? The father did he I won't speak about Rachel.
Can you talk to me about your job in general, the sorts of cases you deal with in an abstract way? When I'm concerned about a student, especially if there's possible criminal activity involved, it's my duty to contact the D.
A.
'S office.
Now, if the D.
A.
Pursues charges, the student has to testify against their own parent.
That's a difficult decision for a young person to make.
Extremely difficult.
It could be easier to run away.
It's set for tomorrow.
Tusk lands at 7:30 and then heads straight to the white house for dinner with the President.
- Is it on the official schedule? - No.
- We need it to be.
- Well, I can't do that.
The President specifically asked that I leave it off.
Actually, that's good.
We can make that work.
Can you set up a meeting between Birch and the President? About what? So he can give him his two cents about who he will nominate.
I don't think we want Birch getting involved.
- He'll never get the chance.
- What are you planning? Can you set up a meeting for later today? Yes or no? I'm sure I can squeeze it in.
Good.
I'll talk to Birch.
Get him on the phone.
This has to stay off the books, just like the dinner with Tusk.
- Okay.
- And finally, do you have a scheduler that you can fire? Janine, I've got something for you.
What is this? The President's O.
T.
R.
schedule between now and Friday.
- How'd you get this? - It doesn't matter.
Look who he's meeting with this afternoon.
- Bob Birch.
- And look at Friday night.
Raymond Tusk.
These aren't the craziest meetings for him to be having.
Then why aren't they on the official schedule? He's considering them for Vice President.
I'd say that's reason enough to keep them secret.
Get this out, right away.
Mr.
speaker, I'm hearing that you're gonna be considered for the vice presidency.
Slugline is reporting that you're heading to the White House right now.
- I'm, uh no.
- You're not headed to the White House? Yes.
The President just wants my input.
But there's the possibility that you might be under consideration yourself.
Not that I'm aware of.
Excuse me.
- How did the schedule get out? - It got leaked, sir, by someone in the scheduling office.
- On purpose? - Accidentally.
A wrong attachment to an e-mail that went wide.
Well, whoever it was, I want them out.
I already let them go.
- Is, uh, Birch here yet? - He's waiting outside.
Well, cancel the meeting.
Tell him something came up.
- I don't want to feed the frenzy.
- Yes, sir.
Give me the private line, please.
There are three satellite trucks on my street.
I'm trapped in my own home.
Somebody in the scheduling office fucked up.
Are you seriously considering Birch? Absolutely not.
We are losing control of the process, Garrett.
Every time I've spoken to you, you've never spoken back.
Although given our mutual disdain, I can't blame you for the silent treatment.
Perhaps I'm speaking to the wrong audience.
Can you hear me? Are you even capable of language, or do you only understand depravity? Peter, is that you? Stop hiding in my thoughts and come out.
Have the courage in death that you never had in life.
Come out, look me in the eye and say what you need to say.
There is no solace above or below.
Only us Small, solitary, striving, battling one another.
I pray to myself, for myself.
Hello? Who is it? My lawyer said I shouldn't be talking to you.
- Mine said the same thing.
- I'm not gonna change my mind, Claire.
I made a mistake.
I got upset, and I acted impulsively.
I was the one who made the mistake by partnering with you in the first place.
Well, then, can we please both admit that it wasn't meant to be, and we can find an amicable way - No, we can't.
- What do you want? To send a message.
Organizations like yours get 90% of the grant money, then cozy up to corporate sponsors who destroy the environment.
The things you're claiming are lies.
I never mentioned your pregnancy.
I got in touch with Evelyn Baxter.
Remember her? We had a long conversation.
It seems that you have a history of axing people who disagree with you.
She'll be testifying on my behalf.
So will eight of the people that you made her fire.
If you want an apology, I'm here to offer you one, and to give you whatever you think is fair.
This case is gonna get national attention because of who you're married to.
I'll have a platform to say what I want to say.
That's worth more than anything you could offer.
Listen, I know we have different philosophies, but what we're trying to achieve is exactly the same thing.
We shouldn't be fighting each other.
Do you feel that? The kicking? I won't let people like you fuck up the world my child has to live in.
If I have to tell a few lies to do that At least I learned one valuable thing from you.
Call me Irresponsible Call me Unreliable Go on and throw in - What can I get for you? - Glenlivet, neat.
Well, do my foolish alibis bore The lawsuit? And other things.
What other things? You know, I cannot guarantee you that all of this is gonna succeed.
Oh, it's not that.
You can tell me, or I can keep guessing.
You'll roll your eyes.
Not at you.
I was thinking about when one of us dies.
Whether it's you first or me Well, if it is me, and I'm sure it will be, you won't be alone for long.
No.
I mean, what will we leave behind? We've accomplished a great deal.
And I intend for us to accomplish a lot more.
But for whom? For each other.
But if we're not Ah, I'm being silly.
Have you ever been published? Many times.
I guess that's a stupid question.
You don't seem like a starving artist.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
You have a nice laugh.
Really? It's very attractive.
Are you staying at the hotel? You want to come up to my room? That depends.
Well, how much would that cost me? That seems about right.
Close your eyes.
Put out your hands.
Now open them up.
I'm trying to find this woman.
If you make me pull out my badge, I have to take you in.
But I don't want to do that.
Let's not make a scene.
I used to see her around.
She left the business, though.
We haven't really kept in touch.
Any idea where she might be? A friend of mine saw her waiting tables at a restaurant in Georgetown.
I guess the question I'm trying to ask is, um Is it even worth that step? The bottom line is that for a woman your age, it's extremely hard.
Have you ever had a miscarriage? No.
I, um I've been late before, but I don't You know, I don't know.
I don't know exactly.
Have you had any abortions? Three.
That can make it more difficult.
I'm not trying to dissuade you, but please make sure you think long and hard before you decide.
But it's possible? Assuming you and your husband fit all the criteria? Yes, it's possible.
Okay.
What? Well, that's hardly my problem.
No, you get on it.
It's I have to call you back.
What is it? Sancorp's stock.
It's up 35% in the last four hours.
It's all over the financial news.
Tusk is making a play.
Get Remy on the phone.
Congressman Underwood on line three.
I was just about to call you.
I need to meet with Tusk before he sees the President tonight.
- He's already here.
- At the White House? He decided to come in a few hours early.
His plane landed half an hour ago.
- Do you know where he is? - I don't know.
He had his own car pick him up.
I just found out.
Remy's not in his office.
I left word there and on his cell.
Look, you need to call me the moment you know where he is.
Okay.
It's just the lunch menu right now.
I hope that's okay.
Yeah.
That's fine.
Your server will be with you shortly.
Is Rachel working? Uh, no.
I don't think she's scheduled till Sunday.
Stephanie will be with you this afternoon.
Thanks.
Should we come back Sunday? I'll be right back.
Excuse me.
Can I help you with something? Yeah.
I was just looking for the bathroom.
Unless you want to use the restroom in the office.
- Who are you calling? - Rachel.
Rachel Posner? My name is Zoe Barnes.
I'm a reporter at slugline.
com.
I know about Peter Russo.
Rachel? Come on, Rachel.
You shouldn't have mentioned Russo.
- She'll write back.
- I wouldn't if I was her.
How much do you know? That you were with him when he was pulled over.
- Who else knows? - Just me.
I can keep it that way, but I need more.
- There is no more.
- You're lying.
Yeah, I was with him when he got pulled over.
They took him away and let me go.
I don't know what happened to him.
He was never charged.
You know more than me, then.
No one ever came to talk to you? - About what? - To keep you quiet.
You don't kiss and tell in that business.
Not even when it's a congressman? Especially when it's a congressman.
Frank Underwood never approached you? Who's that? You're too smart to play dumb, Rachel.
You know who that is.
Name rings a bell.
I try not to follow the news.
Too many familiar faces.
How about Douglas stamper? Never heard of him.
I've told you everything I know.
I know about what your father did.
If you don't help me, I'll write about Russo.
I'll write that you were a prostitute, and I'll write about why you left home.
Go to town, bitch.
So? She mentioned both you and your boss.
- What exactly? - She didn't say.
All she seemed to know was that I was in the car with him when he got pulled over.
And you didn't admit to more than that? No.
I said everything exactly like you told me to.
- You really think I'd spill my guts? - Calm down.
Why didn't you tell me he was gonna hurt himself? I never would've done it.
How could I have known? - I just want all this to go away.
- It will.
All of it.
I promise.
Do you want me to order you dinner? - Where's Doug at? - I don't know.
He left early.
- Call him for me, will you? - Yes, sir.
Thirteen minutes from now, Tusk will meet with the President, if he isn't there already.
You've never been an ally, have you? Pressing on with your slow, incessant march.
Time would've killed Russo if I hadn't, just as it will kill me someday.
Kill us all.
Sir, I just got Doug's voicemail.
I wonder where he's at.
Well, maybe this is him.
Freddy? Sorry, Frank.
I had to trade up.
Sancorp's a big fish, but Raymond Tusk is a whale.
Can I get you something, Frank? Nothing right now.
Thank you, Freddy.
I'll leave y'all to it.
I hope you don't mind that Remy told me about this little secret of yours.
I wanted a place where you'd feel comfortable.
Shouldn't you be at the White House? How could I pass up the chance to eat the best ribs in Washington? Mm-mm-mm.
Remy told you about Sancorp.
As of closing bell today, I own 3%.
By the end of next week, I'll own over ten.
Enough to make sure they can't cause me any trouble.
A valiant effort, though.
I respect that.
So why are we here? I told you I'd give you until today to think things over.
- I'm a man who keeps my word.
- And I'm still not interested.
You wanted me to be more specific back in St.
Louis.
That would be a good start.
Why did Britain go to war with China 150 years ago? I'm in no mood for riddles.
Humor me a moment.
- Opium.
- It was bigger than opium, Frank.
That was simply the excuse.
Peking wanted to call the shots instead of the west.
It's the same problem we're facing now.
But nobody wants a trade war, much less a military one.
And what's your opium? Samarium-149.
I need it for my reactors.
China controls 95% of the world's supply.
And you're worried about the imbalance in our currency, our foreign debt - All of it.
- You already have the President's ear.
Trade tariffs are controlled by congress.
You have a lot more influence there than Garrett does.
It's the reason I wanted you to stay there in the first place.
And what exactly would you want me to do? Well, that part I don't know yet.
We'll have to wait and see how things play out with the Chinese.
I've already told you I will not do a blank check.
I must say I'm surprised, Frank.
You have a reputation for pragmatism.
And I also have avoided a reputation for indentured servitude.
I never make an offer more than twice, Frank.
Tell me now if I can count on your cooperation.
You're not offering cooperation, you're demanding tutelage.
So let me make you a proposal.
I am absolutely willing to work together as equals.
I will take your opinions seriously, just as the President does.
But I will not bind myself to them in advance.
If that doesn't interest you, fair enough.
Good luck finding a vice President in the next four days who will prove as pragmatic as I.
You can't purchase loyalty, Raymond.
Not the sort I have in mind.
If you want to earn my loyalty, then you have to offer yours in return.
And if we can agree to that Well, you're a man with imagination.
Wait.
If stamper was there himself, this goes much deeper than a lost arrest file.
Well, let's think about this.
What did Russo gain him? A mansion in Harrisburg.
Uh-uh.
Underwood thinks bigger than that.
- Then what? - I don't know.
He controls Pennsylvania.
He has influence in the White House.
Walker needs the state for reelection No.
No, it can't just be Walker.
The President backstabbed him for the secretary of state nomination.
It has to be something else.
The President would owe him.
But what? They already meet once a week.
The education bill? I mean, what? What specifically? He could be after the V.
P.
nomination.
That doesn't make sense, though.
The V.
P.
slot is on the table because Russo tanked.
Underwood wanted him to win.
Unless he didn't.
Maybe he wanted Russo to self-destruct.
To force Matthews to run.
Exactly.
And then next week, when Matthews wins The President taps Underwood.
Mr.
President.
Mr.
Tusk.
Thanks for coming on such short notice.
Have a seat, Frank.
I have a confession to make.
Raymond and I have known each other for years.
We don't publicize it, but he's been a trusted advisor to me.
And I sent you to St.
Louis so he could spend time with you, give me his two cents.
On what, sir, if I may ask? Offering you the vice presidency.
I told the President that, uh, in my humble opinion, both he and the country would be well served by a man as experienced, intelligent, and loyal as you.
So I'm officially asking, Frank.
Sir, I I don't know what to say.
Say yes.
Yes.
It would be a great honor, Mr.
President.
Meechum.
I take care of my own, and you've proved yourself to be very valuable.
I would like you to be part of my security detail once I get confirmed.
That's the Secret Service, sir.
I'm capitol police.
Then I'll put you on the Secret Service.
If you're interested.
I'd be more than interested, sir.
Good.
And I'm extremely grateful.
Keep being valuable.
That's the best way to show your gratitude.
I will, Mr.
Vice President.
Did the plumber finally come? No.
I fixed it.
Francis.
So proud of you, Francis.
I didn't do it alone.
I got here as quickly as I could.
Is something wrong? I need you to be completely honest with me, Christina.
About what? The other day, when I said that you should tell me if anyone from the press started harassing you Zoe Barnes? You said you wanted to talk about something on the phone.
Oh, no.
That can wait.
No.
Come on.
Tell me.
I, um earlier today The rowing machine, I saw, is broken.
Oh, it's my fault.
The cable broke.
I haven't been able to replace it yet.
What about going for a run with me? She's trying to smear congressman Underwood.
It's a coordinated campaign by everyone at Slugline.
But she knew things.
Like what? About Peter.
Something to do with Kern losing the nomination.
And? Want me to drive alongside you, sir? No.
You stay here.
Yes, sir.
You ready? Yes.
We could jump in the car if We'll wait.
Did you get the Congressman anything for his birthday? No.
I got him cuff links.
Silver with his We don't talk about birthdays.
We don't do gifts.
Why not? You should return the cuff links.
Doug? I tried calling you.
I left my phone in the We need to talk.
What's going on? Christina.
I just spoke to her.
Did Zoe? Yeah.
And that's not all.
They tracked down Rachel, too.
Francis? Tell me about Rachel.
Where is she? I have her under control.
That's not what I asked.
I drove her home.
We don't have to worry about her.
You said the same about Ms.
Skorsky.
Anyone else involved? Just Janine and Zoe.
They asked about Russo's arrest, and they know he went to see Kapeniak.
I assume that's as far as they've gotten.
Assume nothing.
I'll alert Barney Hull.
What do you want me to do about Zoe? I'll handle Zoe.
Get to work.
Yes, sir.
I emptied it.
You're another year older on Tuesday.
And we can't have a Vice President who smokes.
Can you finish? What? I'm good.
What's wrong? Nothing.
I just said finish.
I don't want to just If you're not Okay, fine.
Whatever.
Zoe, did I do something that made you No.
Zoe, you can't say something like, "Just finish," and then shut down.
This is safe, Zoe.
I'm not him.
Good morning, Jackie.
Good morning.
Richard Russell? Civil Rights Act, 1963.
Not everyone can be on the right side of history.
Not even Lyndon for a time.
But he would've never become Majority Leader without him.
Well, there's no Johnson Senate Building.
No.
He had to settle for a presidential library.
It's been sometime since you and I have had a chance to catch up.
You've been an outstanding deputy, Jackie.
Far more effective than your more seasoned colleagues.
You're a coalition builder.
Fighter when you have to be.
Tell me, where do you see yourself headed? I'd like to aim for the Chair of Armed Services or Homeland Security.
Have you ever considered sewing in the Leadership? I figure that might be possible eight, ten years from now.
What if I suggested that you could serve in Leadership this term? To replace me as Whip.
You're being tapped for VP? Let's assume that's true.
That makes sense, but me as Whip? Yes.
A third term Congresswoman? A universally admired incumbent who also happens to be a war veteran.
Webb is next in line or Buchwalter.
Mmm-hmm.
So just consider that for a moment.
They'll draw votes from one another.
I'm not saying you wouldn't have to fight for it, but I'd be willing to give you the ammunition.
Come over here.
What is this? My files on Webb and Buchwalter.
Why don't you take a look? We'll speak in a few days.
And there's one on you.
You might want to begin by reading that one first What'd Janine say? Strip club's not open yet.
You'll look into Kapeniak? If he's on the grid, I'll find him.
Drop me at Metro Center.
Not the office? I'm going to talk to Rachel.
She'll deny everything like she did last night.
She can't deny getting into Stamper's car.
You saw her.
Maybe you send a version of the story about her dad.
No one would print it.
Rachel doesn't know that.
She said, "Go to town, bitch!" It won't work.
I have to get in her face.
Congratulations.
We're thrilled for you.
Thank you.
I wanted to fill in Bob and Terry personally.
Let's get to it.
I have to leave for Pittsburgh in what? Twenty minutes.
Home stretch with Jim, whistle-stop tour.
Looking good out there.
Very good.
But we don't want to take any chances.
Now, your replacement as Whip, Frank.
Bob has already shared some thoughts.
I like Howard Webb.
Webb is a solid choice.
Have you thought about Wes Buchwalter? Buchwalter's a hothead.
Could you live with Webb, Frank? Webb is a good tactician, but he lacks follow-through.
The problem with Buchwalter is he's too abrasive.
No charm.
Lots of enemies.
Is there a third option? They're the two most senior members in the caucus.
It's their turn.
Mr.
President, what if we let the caucus pick? Let it be a wide open race? Both men are qualified.
The Leadership should be united in this.
We don't want to be backing different candidates, Frank.
So we stay out of it, and neither of us backs anyone.
I like it.
The caucus will respect someone who did it the old-fashioned way.
Gentlemen, it's your call to make.
Figure it out amongst yourselves and let me know what you decide.
Thank you, Mr.
President.
Put me through to Secretary Lewis.
Frank, I don't want to go to battle with you on this.
We've been down that road.
I couldn't agree more.
An open race makes me nervous.
Well, look, it was just a suggestion.
I'll put some thought into it.
Thank you.
You know, let me go work on him.
Good luck.
What are you doing here? Ask me what I want to order.
Have you decided, sir? I need you to quit your job.
Tell Leon it's your last day.
Why? Act normal.
Would you want a side with that? They found you once.
We can't take the chance they'll find you again.
What am I supposed to Do as I say.
Go home and pack your things.
I'll come by around 10:00.
But I don't get a say in Stop it! One suitcase.
That's it.
Can you at least tell me I'll take the shepherd's pie with a side of Brussels sprouts.
To go.
We don't want a trial, her lawyers don't want a trial, but Ms.
Cole won't listen to reason.
That said, if you give me a little more time If she wants to go to court, then let's give her that.
Just because she's being unreasonable now, doesn't mean she I'm done! That's a kneejerk reaction.
I've never known you to be a person who was irrational or impatient.
Let me check back with her lawyers, and maybe we can What is the soonest we can set a trial date? Claire Give me a time frame.
Six months, at the earliest.
Inform her people.
Then no more communication.
As your counsel, it is my duty to strongly advise you against this.
I understand, and I thank you, Oliver.
Thank you.
So? They wouldn't give me individual contact info, but here's every doctor who served in East Africa during the last three years.
And what about the HMO? You need a consent form.
It's in the packet.
Can I help you? Yeah.
I'm looking for Rachel Posner.
She's not here.
Is she coming in later? Why? I know her.
Well, your friend really screwed me over.
What happened? She took off, middle of her shift.
I had to put my hostess on waitstaff duty.
Look, I'm concerned.
Rachel's in real trouble.
I don't care what her personal issues are.
I just need to know where she lives.
I thought you knew her.
I do.
it's just been a while.
And she sent me a text message saying she wants to hurt herself, and now, she won't answer her phone.
She has a history of mental illness.
You got to help me out.
Look, I can't.
Her W-2, the address was a PO Box.
I'll take whatever I can get.
Let me see what I got in the office.
Thank you.
If you find her, you tell her not to come back.
I don't need some nutcase creating chaos in here.
Nancy? Yes, sir! Is Doug back yet? In his office.
And, sir, birthday cards have started to arrive, a few presents.
Thank you notes.
Inventory the presents.
Anything valuable Goes in the conference room.
Anything cheap Goes to the interns.
You know what to do with the cards.
Yes, sir.
I'm picking her up tonight.
I've got everything set up for her in Joppa.
Where is that? Maryland.
About 30 minutes north of Baltimore.
That's close to home.
We want her to disappear, but not on us.
Fine.
Do you have the burner? Yeah.
Happy birthday.
It's pre-paid.
All you need to do is turn it on and dial.
We still have the phone history.
All the more reason to be safe going forward.
Where are we with Christina? I'm on it.
Linda's office.
I called her this morning.
Are you Gillian Cole? Yeah.
Have we met? No, we haven't met.
You know my husband.
Your husband? David Applebaum.
So it's true.
It was a mistake You want to see our kids? I can show you pictures.
Mrs.
Applebaum Who the fuck do you think you are? Look, I'm sorry.
You're sorry? I don't think you're sorry.
And don't think for a second you're going to use that baby to get money out of us.
He doesn't even know I'm pregnant.
But you knew he was married.
How could you? Did he talk about us? No Lying bitch.
Am I embarrassing you? Did you think about how you would humiliate me and my kids? Use a condom the next time you fuck somebody's husband.
It's been less than 24 hours.
She quits her job in the middle of a shift? She's scared.
I'd take off too.
It's Underwood.
He's moving faster than we are.
- What about the stripper? - Refuses to talk.
Kapeniak? No current address, no siblings.
Parents are dead.
Rachel's the last loose end.
She must know something else, bigger than the DUI.
Any idea where she went? I got a PO Box in Dupont, but none of the clerks have seen her.
I could go stake it out, but Have you talked to your guy yet? In the next day or two.
He's bringing me the police report on Russo's suicide.
I'll press him for more.
What's your next move? I'm trying to figure out how to respond to this.
I got it a couple hours ago.
I think he's setting her up.
I know how to handle him.
The less he knows the better.
We might learn something.
Not with him calling the shots.
I'm choosing the place.
As if that makes a difference.
I'm not going to fuck him.
Just talk to him.
I'm going to go to the bathroom.
I'm sorry.
I shouldn't have It's okay.
No, it's not.
I just don't want you to be careless.
I won't be.
You want no life? You want more work than three people can handle? You want a decent chance that you could be fired within the first month? If that tempts you, we can keep talking.
None of that intimidates me.
I've been running a Congressional district for the past nine weeks with zero assistance.
Nobody elected me.
Nobody taught me.
I've done it because somebody had to.
What happened was tragic, but you won't get sympathy from me.
I don't have time for it.
I wouldn't be sitting here if I wanted a shoulder to cry on.
Rachel? Leave.
I said leave.
Are you packed? I'm not going anywhere.
So you didn't quit today.
I did, but I changed my mind.
This isn't your decision to make.
I'm keeping my job, and I'm keeping this apartment.
No, you're not.
You promised you'd make this all go away.
And you starting over is the first step in that.
No, I already started over.
I don't want to start over again.
I wish you didn't have to.
Get out.
Get out! Lower your voice.
I'll fucking kill you.
Go ahead.
I am the only one who can protect you.
Don't you see that? You have no idea how much danger you're in.
Hey.
Start packing.
You know, I ask every year Nothing, as usual.
I thought we could have dinner.
Only if it's someplace where nobody will recognize us.
I don't want anyone walking up I mean at home.
I'll cook something.
No cake.
No cake.
No gifts.
No gifts.
I could do that.
How's the lawsuit coming? We'll be fine.
We'd like to increase the size of your detail to full Head-of-State status starting tomorrow.
Well, that won't be happening.
It's good to get a head start, so that by the time the announcement These are my last few days before I never have privacy again.
I intend to savor these moments for as long as I can.
But sir, in terms of safety, I think Until I am confirmed as the Vice President, security is at my discretion, is that correct? Technically, yes Then that's settled.
All right, we'll wait until the announcement.
Now, assuming the confirmation goes through, we'll need to work out the logistics of moving you into the Naval Observatory.
That won't be happening either.
The Congressman will be remaining in his townhouse.
But it doesn't have the necessary security infrastructure.
Then you'll need to build it.
We're talking blast-proofing, hard-wired communications networks, Where there's a will, there's a way.
I'll contact you directly about setting a plan in motion.
Oh, and one last thing before you go.
I'd like to have Edward Meechum serve on my detail.
- He's Capitol Police.
- For now.
You're about to appoint him to the Secret Service.
That would require an accelerated training program.
Sir, we have plenty of qualified agents, men and women with years of experience.
And I look forward to working with all of them as long as Edward Meechum is on the detail.
Thank you very much for your time.
Thank you, sir.
Nancy, have Meechum bring the car around.
You know, last time was the last time.
I know, but this is important.
You keep selling me that swampland.
I'm done buying.
No more.
The cover-up, you said it went as high as Barney Hull.
That's not what I said.
When you gave me Rachel Posner's What I said is that arrests don't disappear without a big-ass wand.
That ain't the same as proof.
We think Congressional Leadership took part.
I don't care.
Yes, you do.
I know you do.
No, I really don't.
When you helped me expose the drug They were dirty street cops stuffing a few grams in their pockets.
This is different.
Powerful fucking people.
Dirty cops are dirty cops.
You want to protect them? I have a pension and a family.
I understand, but Don't contact me again.
Where is your cell? Here.
It's not recording.
I need to ask you to delete all of our phone history.
Why would I do that? I'm trying to protect both you and I.
I'm not facing prison.
You didn't cover up the arrest? Was it because you wanted him to be Governor? No.
He was in trouble, so I helped.
And later he expressed a desire to run, and I offered guidance.
To an alcoholic? To a sober, recovering alcoholic.
Did you want him to self-sabotage? Absolutely not.
It got Matthews in the race.
I like to back people who want to succeed.
Take yourself as an example.
You just took advantage of the situation.
Matthews took advantage.
I didn't seek the nomination.
Russo was in the passenger seat when he died.
That's not entirely accurate.
I saw the police report.
And I spoke to the Commissioner directly, because I cared about Peter, and I wanted to know the full story.
He wasn't in the passenger seat? The passenger door was open, and he was halfway out.
They think that He might have had second thoughts.
If I speak to Barney Hull, he'll confirm that? What are you suggesting, Zoe? Maybe there was foul play.
If there was a hint of foul play, don't you think the police would have investigated? The same police that buried his DUI? And you think I was involved.
There's a connection between you.
Listen, you sound ludicrous.
I'm just asking questions.
No, you're connecting dots that don't exist.
You want me to just walk away? Act as if I don't know anything? Yes, I got Peter out of a jam.
Yes, I sent him to speak to Kapeniak.
But beyond that, there's nothing to know.
Can you blame me if I find it difficult to trust you right now? Trust me or not.
But I'm about to be confirmed as the Vice President.
And our relationship extends to the Oval Office now.
Don't step out of the sunlight for no reason.
Let's start this new chapter with a clean slate.
Now you sleep on that, and I'll be in touch.
We'll start with blood and hormone tests.
Those results should be back within a few days.
If they're good, we'll move onto genetic testing for both you and your husband.
Have you spoken to him yet? Not yet.
I want to do the tests first.
We can do those anytime this week.
I'll have my office call yours.
I almost forgot.
I've been doing some research on the Internet Be careful of the Internet.
Well, I was looking into common issues associated with post 40-pregnancies.
And this drug came up, but there wasn't much on it.
It's Cruvenae Cruvenae-tenuestrin.
You probably haven't found much, because it's still in the beta stage.
And what does it do? It helps maximize blood flow to the placenta.
Until CBT, there hasn't been any viable drug for that.
The jury's still out.
But placental insufficiency affects women of all ages.
I wouldn't worry about it for now.
That's putting the cart way before the horse.
Now, as to who is going to replace Matthews when he wins Can I at least turn off the overhead? Of course.
You want me to go work downstairs? No.
That's fine.
Just make some room.
You haven't said a word.
No.
Where does that leave us? I'm fully prepared.
And I have been for some time.
I know you'll do whatever you think is best.
But Underwood confirmed it.
He's going to be tapped for VP.
That doesn't get us any closer to We know that Russo cleared the way for Matthews.
It reinforces the theory.
It doesn't give us proof.
We can't go after the guy for playing dirty.
That's not news.
Half the fuckers in Congress play dirty.
He propped up a sham candidate just to take him down.
Nobody forced Russo to drink that night.
The guy was an alcoholic.
Okay, we don't know what happened that night other than three days later, he killed himself.
Are you gonna contact him again? I don't know.
We need to slow down, take a step back and re-evaluate We already let Rachel slip away.
There's no point until we have more! We should keep him guessing, not Have more from where? - From who? - I don't know.
But we should exhaust all options before Zoe reaches back out to Underwood.
We don't have any other options.
We are up against a brick wall, and unless Zoe? Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
I just need to think.
Well, let's think about it together.
I'll call you tomorrow.
Freddy.
Yeah, Frank? Was there something different about these ribs this morning? Better or worse? I didn't think that they could get any better, but these were something special.
Well, tried a new butcher.
He slow bleeds his hogs.
It ain't legal, but Well, I won't tell anyone.
I don't know if I'm going to go back to him.
Went out to his shop.
He's got a room in the back where he does it.
Sound proof, the whole setup.
Why soundproof? 'Cause of how they scream.
They can smell it coming.
You stick that pipe in their throat, next 10 minutes is hell.
Bust your fucking eardrums.
Now, the humane way to do it is to make it quick.
Bring out a bucket of slop like it's feeding time, and then, bam, shovel right to the base of the head.
No screaming.
Now, he's willing to open up the race, but Birch was very clear.
If he can't endorse anyone, you can't either.
That's fair.
You really want Buchwalter to win? I want the best man to win.
That sounds like a cagey, bullshit non-answer to me.
I'm on the sidelines for this one, Terry.
You're never on the sidelines, Frank.
I'll see you around.
Claire You wouldn't return my calls.
I'll be back.
My attorney said that I shouldn't be in contact with you.
Blue Cross said my insurance was canceled.
Oh! The severance package gave me health coverage for up to a year.
That sounds right.
So there must be some kind of mistake.
Well, you'll have to talk to the insurance company.
I did.
They said it was terminated.
They can't reinstate it without the employer's approval.
And you want me to get involved? There's medication that I need that I can't get unless it goes through my HMO.
Oh, I'm well aware.
I reviewed your records.
What? You signed a consent form.
No, I didn't.
You forged my signature? Did a Mrs.
Applebaum pay you a visit? You realize what you're doing is Civil, not criminal.
Have you thought this out? Because when we go to court You mean six months from now? You're expecting in four, no? That's four months without the medicine you need.
I'm willing to let your child wither and die inside you if that's what's required.
But neither of us wants that.
Now tell me, am I really the sort of enemy you want to make? But here's the alternative.
This office, this staff, 22 million a year could be yours.
The CWI could be yours.
And you and me, we wash our hands of each other.
You're trying to buy me? No.
When we first met, I promised to empower you.
I'm fulfilling that promise.
How do I get screwed? You don't.
I resign.
You take my place.
No strings? None.
Exit polls have Jim Matthews winning by anywhere from a 9 to 12% margin of victory.
Swofford is expected to - Hello.
- Mrs.
Underwood? Yes? Hi.
I'm calling from Dr.
Larson's office to confirm your 10:00 a.
m.
tomorrow for the blood and urine test.
I can't come.
Well, if tomorrow doesn't work, we can reschedule for Thursday or even Monday.
No.
I won't be rescheduling.
Please tell Dr.
Larson I appreciate all her consultation, but I've put a great deal of thought into this, and I won't be pursuing any further tests.
Thank you.
Have you thought about what we discussed? I think you're right.
We should start with a clean slate.
What about our text messages? And the contact? Are we good? Yeah.
We can put all this other nonsense behind us, and trust one another and continue to help one another? I'd like that.
Consider the slate clean.
Answer me one thing.
The passenger seat.
You said Russo was trying to get out.
But there was nothing I thought we just agreed.
I want to believe you, but I need details.
More than what you're sharing.
What's your question? The night Russo fell off the wagon, he was at a fundraiser.
The McNeely Cancer Institute All in the police report.
Rachel Posner was at the hotel that night.
Who's that? The call girl who was with Russo when he was arrested.
I didn't know her name.
She disappeared, Francis.
When? Don't act surprised.
I showed the bellmen a photo.
One of them remembers seeing her.
The girl is a prostitute.
I'm sure she frequents many hotels.
But that hotel on that night? Now, you sound like Ms.
Skorsky talking.
I haven't discussed this with anyone.
I wanted to ask you first.
I have no idea what happened that night except that Peter started drinking again.
I don't know who was or wasn't there.
I wish I was.
Maybe I could have stopped him.
Do you know where Rachel is? Listen to what I am saying.
I'm trying to protect us both.
But these are questions anyone could ask.
But no one is except you.
I can't imagine what you're after.
I took a chance, showed up at your house and placed myself at your feet.
Crosses ethical lines, professionally, physically.
And I hold myself accountable for that.
Those are my choices, and I can live with them.
I'd like to move forward, but I need to know exactly what I was a part of that That I wasn't a part of someone's Finish your thought.
Part of someone's murder.
Jesus! I want to believe you, Francis.
Janine! Come in.
I've been calling you.
Come here.
Come in.
Sit down.
Um You want something? Some water or Juice? You going somewhere? Hey! You going somewhere? To my Mom's in Ithaca.
What? I'm leaving.
No.
No, no, no.
No way! We have nothing.
Are you giving up on this? There are only three people in the world that know what he has done, and one of them is gone.
If we had anything, Lucas, any hard evidence, or even a fucking quote from a source that would go on record for us, that would be one thing.
But we are grasping, and he's not fucking around.
You were the one who told Zoe to pursue this.
She told me what you said.
The only stories that mattered were the ones that scared you to death! Okay, this isn't just death threats! This is real! He doesn't know about you, but he knows about me.
These were in my mailbox.
No return address.
He took these of her? Who else? You can keep them.
But I don't think they're going to help you.
We need to stop him.
Sick fucking shit.
Janine, you cannot run away from this.
My entire career, I have always chosen the tough stories.
I have been fearless.
But you know what? I'm really fucking scared this time.
He's got power, he's got a lot to lose, and right now, he is winning.
Please, I need your help.
Please, don't do this.
Just wake the fuck up, Lucas! at approximately 8:00 p.
m.
last night, on the northbound tracks of the Cathedral Heights Metro Station.
DC Police have ruled the death an accident.
Zoe Barnes was a senior contributor at Slugline.
com.
Previously, she worked at The Washington Herald as a Metro reporter and political correspondent.
Barnes broke several major stories including an early draft of the Education Reform and Achievement Act, as well as a college newspaper article that derailed Senator Michael Kern's nomination for Secretary of State.
Carly Heath, the Editor-in-chief of Slugline tweeted this morning, "Zoe Barnes exemplified the best and brightest.
"We're so sad the! She's no longer with us.
" What'd you think of the files? There's plenty to work with.
Did you look at your own? There was nothing there.
Should there be? No.
Even if you're lying, the fact that I haven't been able to find anything tells me you're very good at covering your tracks.
That's valuable to me.
Here's our battleground.
One hundred and thirteen votes.
You have the skeletons.
If I lose, they'll come after me.
That's a risk you have to take.
How do I know you're not just using me? Throwing a wrench into someone else's bid? That's another risk.
The alternative is you wait 10 years.
You chose me for a reason.
I'd like to know what it is.
All right.
How many missile strikes did you launch? Enough to keep me awake at night.
But you did it anyway.
Yes, I did.
How many women and children? Too many.
And you launched those missiles knowing all those innocent people would die? I had orders to eliminate the enemy.
Which you carried out expertly and efficiently.
Have you ever killed anyone? No.
I watched apartment buildings, entire villages gone like they were never there.
I prefer not to talk about it if that's all right.
You did what needed to be done, and that's why I chose you' Jackie.
Service background, clean history, photogenic, the whole package.
But more importantly, ruthless pragmatism.
Are we working together or not? Any public or private endorsements for Buchwalter, I come out for Webb.
I'll stay out of the fray.
I give you my word.
Same goes for you, Terry.
Thank you, Christina.
Gentlemen.
Mr.
President, how was Pennsylvania? You like Indian? Sir, I've seen the news.
I know she was close to you.
Terrible tragedy.
I spoke to Special Agent Rockland today, sir.
I begin my training next week.
Very good.
I know it's a day late.
I hope it isn't inappropriate, but I wanted to give you this.
Thank you, Meechum.
That was very nice of Edward.
He shouldn't have spent this sort of money on me.
I've opened some wine downstairs.
I'll be down in a minute.
Did you think I'd forgotten you? Perhaps you hoped I had.
Don't waste a breath mourning Ms.
Barnes.
Every kitten grows up to be a cat.
They seem so harmless at first.
Small, quiet, lapping up their saucer of milk.
But once their claws get long enough, they draw blood.
Sometimes from the hand that feeds them.
For those of us climbing to the top of the food chain, there can be no mercy.
There is but one rule.
Hunt or be hunted.
Welcome back.

This is not the most inspiring choice for Vice President, right? I mean, a well-respected operator, pragmatic, but let's face it.
This is probably just a nod to Congress.
Tapping one of their own.
It's really nothing more than a placeholder until 2016, assuredly.
I'm not surprised he's doing a private swearing-in.
My bet is that the President wants to draw as little attention to this as possible.
There's just no real wow factor Christina's working out well? She's getting her sea legs, but I've been happy so far.
She works hard.
It's a big load off my shoulders when she can travel with the President instead of me.
I get so much more done when I stay here.
The President have a preference in the Whip's race? Can't believe how ugly it's gotten.
He's more disappointed than anything else.
Watch out, Wes.
I hope I'm not interrupting.
Not at all.
This is something else.
Security specs.
They had to work fast.
It's like a war zone around here.
The idea is to keep the war from getting in.
How's the Whip's race coming, Congressman? It's tight between you and Howard? Well, you'd have to ask Howard, if he's not too busy trying to sodomize me.
Just say hello.
For God sakes, don't make me talk to that man.
Good to see you, Howard.
Nice to see you, Wes.
Yeah.
I bet it is.
Bob.
Frank.
Appreciate you inviting me, Frank.
What? Thanks for inviting me.
You bet.
Judge.
Good to see you.
Is there somewhere I can go to change? Yes, absolutely.
There's room down the hall.
Doug, will you take care of the judge? And when he's ready, let's get this thing over with.
I'll start bringing 'em in.
"that I take this obligation freely, "without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion.
" "that I take this obligation freely, "without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion.
" "And that I will well" One heartbeat away from the presidency, and not a single vote cast in my name.
Democracy is so overrated.
"office on which lam about to enter, so help me God.
" "And that I will well and faithfully "discharge the duties of the office "on which I am about to enter, so help me God.
" Congratulations, Mr.
Vice President.
All right, let's get back to running the country.
Now, one of you is gonna replace me as the Whip.
You're the two frontrunners, and we know you both want it.
And you're not behaving like men who belong in the Leadership.
We need to tone down the rhetoric.
You're hurting your party.
I'm just responding to the lies Howard's been slinging.
Those junkets happened, Wes.
I'm not making it up.
And nepotism's any better.
That's just not true, and you know it.
And your sister's husband just happened to be appointed State Treasurer.
Ex-husband.
And yes.
That is such a load of crap, Howard.
Gentlemen, Bob is right.
This sort of cat-fighting gets out in the press, whichever one of you wins hits the ground limping.
Let's keep it clean and bring some civility back to the House.
Can we agree to that? I'd feel a lot better if you shook hands on it.
Thank you.
I'm with him right now, Christina.
I'm off.
I'll swing by your office later.
Don't.
It's not ready yet.
I'll be working from here.
Tusk is in town.
He's meeting with the President in 45 minutes.
Christina just told me.
The Joint Commission talks.
That's what she said.
Christina is proving useful.
We'll stay in touch.
Get me Cathy Durant.
Your people coming by? Just my new Chief of Staff.
That's all I've got until we hire more.
So how does it feel to be married to the Vice President? Exactly the same.
Just louder.
Secretary Durant.
Cathy.
Raymond.
Congratulations, Mr.
Vice President.
Thank you very much.
May I please introduce Secretary Durant.
Pleasure, Madam Secretary.
Hi.
Well, this is quite a surprise.
I had no idea you were in town.
Huh? Well Morning, sir.
Mr.
President.
Catherine.
We just happened to run into Raymond.
Well Wonderful.
Come on in.
The phone records will absolutely prove I'm right.
There were no phone records.
You know that.
The data history with the carrier.
Even if we got the case reopened, which isn't gonna happen, do you have any idea how hard it is to get a warrant for phone data? Probable cause.
Bring him in for questioning.
Technically you have jurisdiction.
The Vice President of the United States.
I know this all sounds preposterous to you, but if you go through my notes We've been through your notes.
You've listened, but you haven't heard me.
Circumstantial, yes, but plausible.
I know you've reopened cases on less.
This has gotta stop, man.
We keep having the same conversation.
It can't be an accident.
Okay.
I'm gonna show you something.
CNN tried to get a hold of this.
We 86'ed it out of respect to the family.
The footage? It's not easy to watch.
I want to see it.
She tripped or jumped.
She didn't jump.
Here it is, frame by frame.
Now, there were two witnesses.
One was a 70-year-old woman with macular degeneration.
All she saw was a blur.
The second was the conductor of the train.
He said it looked like she fell.
Between those two and this video, that's all there is.
You can watch it a million times, but this case is closed.
We should limit the agenda to a couple of key issues.
Import tariffs on industrial manufactured goods and export quotas on rare earth elements.
They're using both as political levers.
I agree these are two areas where we can make meaningful progress.
But I'm worried about the rise in corporate cyber attacks.
That's a rabbit hole.
Well, we have to address it sooner or later.
It's just a matter of whether we want to address it now.
The Chinese don't like surprises.
All I'm proposing is that we use the Joint Commission talks to bring it up gently now, set the stage for the next round.
Look, I'm a businessman, not a diplomat.
But I'm a businessman with 35 years' experience working in China.
When they come to the table, you don't get greedy.
You're working on a co-venture refinery project in Fujian.
Which would be the first of its kind.
Open the gateway for increased investment.
Cyber attacks threaten those co-ventures.
There's less a need for them if the Chinese can obtain new technology from corporate espionage.
Frank, what do you think? I lean more toward Raymond's thinking.
If we antagonize the Chinese, we could undo years of progress.
Allow me to do this quietly with a soft touch.
I won't antagonize them, sir.
The last thing we want to do is rock the boat.
What do you have in mind, Catherine? A suggested agenda.
Not a demand.
We'll keep it mid-level.
I won't get anywhere near it.
Raymond? I've voiced my concerns.
A very soft touch.
You have my word, sir.
Good.
Raymond? Want to grab some lunch? Would love to.
Thanks, Frank.
Welcome to the West Wing.
Thank you, sir.
The President is like a lone tree in an empty field.
He leans whichever way the wind is blowing.
And right now, Raymond Tusk blows far too strong from the west.
Is that a wig? No.
He's been growing it out for months.
Diane says she likes it long.
I told her she'll feel differently once she sees the first dreadlock.
Or smells it.
Oh! I went to see your daughter last weekend.
How is she? You want to see a picture? Okay.
Was her mother there? Yeah.
Are they okay on money? The rate at Greenwoods is going up in January.
Catalina is worried she's gonna be short.
I'll make sure to put more into the account We don't have to talk about her if you don't want.
No, no, no.
It's fine.
I appreciate you going to see her.
I'm sorry, Ted.
I thought that when you asked me to lunch it was because you want No, no, no.
I mean, yes, I want to make sure they have what they need.
But no, the reason I wanted to talk Lorrie Tate.
Lorrie's a friend of mine.
What about her? She mentioned you're interested in the Whip's race.
Oh, no.
Ah! I wish she hadn't.
Why not? Because it's ridiculous.
Is it? I just mentioned it off-hand.
The whole Webb and Buchwalter thing is just Complete mess.
But I wasn't serious.
I think you should be serious.
Do you want to do it? I don't have the experience, Ted, and I Yes or no? Yes, of course.
Someday.
But now, I don't have the money they do.
Unless you use mine.
You can't waste your money on If I funnel my PAC money to some folks who are on the fence, round up a couple dozen commitments before you announce, that would make you an instant contender.
Now tell me that's a waste.
We're talking hundreds of thousands.
It's not a Christmas present, Jackie.
With you as Whip, I have a strong ally in the Leadership.
I stand to gain as much as you.
Hang on one second.
I don't know where the.
 How did it go? Did he buy it? Whatever bug you put in his ear burrowed deep.
It was easy.
That man adores you like you're his own child.
But you sure as hell better make me Chief Deputy.
I need to win first.
Ted and I make two.
It's always good when the Chief Deputy knows her arithmetic.
Fuck off.
Let's start taking names.
This one seems promising.
Connor Ellis.
He's solid.
Good experience.
He's the one that got Senator Jones out of that mess with the push polling.
Yes.
Kept him from the Ethics Committee.
Let's set up an interview.
I'll find a good time in the schedule.
Let's talk about the schedule.
I think we need to be more selective with the events I do.
Some of these are leftovers from Mrs.
Matthews.
We can cancel whatever you like.
And what's this? Your husband will be pinning stars on two newly-commissioned Marine generals.
I think that's one you should do.
Okay.
Walk me through it.
The generals are Alicia Hampton and Dalton McGinnis.
Arriving at 6:50.
.
Dalton McGinnis? Yes.
Do you know him? We went to college together.
I'm sorry.
Where were we? Arrive what time? Great.
I'd like a list of all the people that will be attending.
It's not that big a deal if I get left out, but you're the Secretary of State.
I mean, Tusk should not be determining policy.
The President alone should instruct you on what you are to pursue.
What's their relationship? He's had his ear for years.
An adviser More of a mentor, and one whose advice is not easily dismissed.
He's gonna keep pushing back on cyber warfare.
Not if I get it on the agenda.
No, especially if you get it on the agenda.
Tusk is not gonna take any chances when the next Joint Commission talks come around.
You agreed with him in the meeting.
If we had ganged up, he would have taken a firmer position.
For all we know, he's convincing the President right now to change his mind.
Now we need to remove that option as a possibility.
How? Force the Chinese to confront the issue now, this round of talks.
I promised the President a soft touch.
I can't intentionally break my promise.
What if it was unintentional? Cathy, if you don't like how the table is set, turn over the table.
You're cheating.
No, I'm not.
It's vapor.
Still.
You should try it.
Addiction without the consequences.
It's all yours.
You staying up? This ceremony tomorrow night.
You don't want to go.
If I don't have to.
I hate these sort of things, too, but it is my first public appearance as Vice President.
Okay.
Thank you.
Should we turn this into a proper office? That's not a bad idea.
No privacy downstairs.
I'll talk to the contractor.
Goodnight, Francis.
Goodnight.
Sir! Sir! Congressional Record.
Weren't the talks supposed to go until 6:00? We can't talk if they won't listen.
Did the Chinese walk out? We made it clear that we won't discuss any other issues until government-sponsored cyber attacks are on the table.
Apparently, that's not what they wanted to hear.
Sir, what did you tell the Chinese delegation before they walked out? We didn't have anybody there.
The Joint Commission is usually a snooze-fest.
Not today it wasn't.
I've got Greer on it.
Isn't this international? We need somebody from the tech beat if we want any background on cyber warfare.
Does he have anybody on record yet? The Chinese aren't talking, and all the US delegation said is what's in the AP wire.
I want something online in the next two hours.
In-depth follow-up sometime this week.
Hey, Lucas? You all right? Yeah.
Why? You're wearing the same clothes you wore yesterday.
Am n I don't know what's going on in your personal life, but it seems to be entering the workplace.
Appearances matter.
And we can't have an editor looking more disheveled than his reporters.
Two hours.
You'll have something.
Did you know Jackie Sharp's running for Whip? No, this is the first I'm hearing of ii.
I spoke to Webb.
He got an email from Lorrie Tate about me.
I got one from Dave Holland about him.
Which means nothing to me.
The junkets, the nepotism.
Tate and Sharp are close.
Holland serves on the VA Committee with her.
She used proxies to insulate herself.
So you think that she gave the dirt to them.
Yeah.
She's been playing both of us.
How many commitments do you think she could have? Around 20 so far.
So she's a distant third.
But she's picking people off us left and right.
I want your help.
You have my support, Wes.
Then make that public.
If I come out for you, Birch comes out for Webb.
That's gonna hurt you, not help you.
This is serious, Frank.
Ted Havemeyer is bankrolling her.
Have you thought of talking to Jackie? No, no.
I can't do that on principle.
Why not? Anyone who Havemeyer is backing, I don't work with.
He pulled the same crap on me when I ran for Senate.
He financed my primary opponent.
Asshole.
Well, that is your call.
But if you're gonna let an old grudge get in the way of progress I just can't do it, Frank.
Havemeyer's been trying to shove me down the totem pole for years.
I won't give him the satisfaction.
Well, I can respect that, but my hands are tied.
It's a delicate matter, but we are in communication with the Chinese government as to how to move forward.
Does this mean the US will back down on cyber attacks? The United States never backs down, particularly on issues that are high-priority to us.
- Madame Secretary - Thank you.
What did you tell the head of the delegation? The delegation overstepped its bounds, but Cathy couldn't throw her own people under the bus.
she should have consulted us first before speaking publicly.
The press was on her doorstep, and the President was in another hemisphere.
Now, look, I'm not condoning what she did, but she had to do something.
She made a gut call, and she acted.
We have to distance ourselves from this.
When is the President back? Tomorrow morning.
Can we setup a meeting? Cathy needs to publicly apologize.
Can we get her in the room with the President? Shouldn't we all be on the same page first? I'll see what I can do.
Thank you.
Now, you asked me a question before I went and got my food.
Mr.
Vice President.
And I've forgotten what General McGinnis.
Ah! It's a great honor.
I hope you don't mind.
The President wishes he could be here.
He's asked me to fill in.
The honor is mine, sir.
And, General, this is my wife, Claire.
It's good to see you, Claire.
It's been a long time.
Yes.
Harvard.
We were classmates.
Well, Claire didn't say a thing.
Well, we dated for a time.
Well, about five minutes.
Anyway, I'll let you get back to your meal.
Thank you.
I've remembered.
Interestingly enough, in South Carolina, the largest crop is not cotton.
No, it's tobacco.
And the third-largest crop is marijuana.
Now, we'll just keep that to ourselves.
Would you all excuse me for just a moment? Is she alone? Yes.
Would you give us a few moments, please? What's wrong? It was him.
Who? Freshman year.
You mean McGinnis? Francis, Francis.
Please, don't do anything.
I am not gonna pin a medal on that man.
You have to.
Just a minute, please! There is no way that man Sir, they wanna start the ceremony.
Just a minute, please! He does not deserve a medal.
Francis, I beg of you.
That man deserves to be taken out and shot! No.
Please! Do not I said just a minute! Do not make a scene.
Please.
Tom.
Thanks for coming by.
You know, I thought I would miss this place the moment I stepped inside.
But I don't.
Hope you like Stella.
Cheers.
Here's how.
How are things? They're good.
They're good.
You're happy? I haven't been happy a day in my life.
But I have time now to think, to write.
Been working on a novel.
Yeah? Mmm.
It's absolute shit.
That's okay.
That's great, Tom.
That's really great.
What's on your mind? I know you didn't ask me here just to catch up.
Frank Underwood.
On the President's behalf, it is my great honor to formally recognize the selection of General Alicia Hampton as Commander, United States European Command, and Genera! Dalton McGinnis as Commander at the United States Strategic Command.
The United States Marine Corps has been well served by these two exemplary leaders.
The President and I are grateful for their continued service.
Congratulations.
Thank you, sir.
You think I'm insane? I don't think you're insane.
I think you've been through a lot.
Trying to make sense of it all.
I know I'm right.
I'm sure you believe you are.
It's a fact that he helped cover up the DUI.
Imagine if one of your reporters came to you with this story.
Could you print a word of it? No, but I'd have them keep digging.
Would you? If you're honest with yourself, wouldn't you tell them it seemed farfetched? Your notes aren't convincing.
The police reports don't prove a link.
And the speculative leaps you're making I know.
Hold yourself to the same standards as you hold your staff.
You and Zoe were seeing each other.
I'm assuming.
Maybe I'm wrong.
We were.
When I lost my first wife, it didn't add up.
Who dies of breast cancer at 31? I wanted to sue.
Doctors, the hospital, everyone.
Thought they were hiding something.
No.
Grief demands an answer, but sometimes there isn't one.
Her life couldn't be saved.
Period.
What do I do? Would you consider seeing someone? There's a therapist who helped me a great deal when Cynthia passed away.
I can put you in touch No, I don't need to see somebody.
Lucas.
I appreciate you coming by, Tom.
Thanks for the beer.
You call me anytime.
You take care of yourself, Lucas.
I mean it.
Any plans to go elsewhere' sir? No.
We're in for the night.
Thank you.
Yes, sir.
Hey.
I'm tired.
Do you need something, sir? My remote.
I want to play.
It's right over here.
Thank you.
Is there something wrong with the Internet? I can't get online.
We had to disable the access.
It's not a secure connection.
Could you just give me a moment, please? Whenever you're out here, somebody needs to be with you.
I can't be alone in my own backyard? If it were up to me, sir.
But it's not up to me.
Okay, Meechum.
You think I don't want to smash things? I know what that anger is more than you can imagine.
When he was on top of me We don't have to talk about it.
No, I want to.
When he was on top of me, I pressed my hand With everything I could, I pressed it into his face.
I pressed it so hard I broke his nose.
That didn't stop him.
He shoved the sheets in my mouth.
I could barely breathe.
Every time I think of her pinned down like that, I strangle her, Francis, so she doesn't strangle me.
I have to.
We have to.
The alternative is.
It's unlivable.
You should go to sleep.
I'm not sure if I can.
Then you should go back downstairs.
You'll still feel the hate in the morning.
You'll use that.
But not on him.
What did you communicate, exactly? I told him to bring up the agenda, suggest bullet points for the SED, but make no demands.
And how did that translate into a direct ultimatum? Well, sometimes my delegates try to read between the lines.
They know that I need plausible deniability for diplomatic purposes.
Why didn't you immediately recant? In my experience with the Chinese, backpedaling makes us look weak.
I had two choices.
Lose face or exhibit strength.
I chose the latter.
All right, Catherine.
I'll be in touch shortly.
Thank you, sir.
Get me Raymond on the private line.
Do you think she overstepped on purpose? Cathy would never disobey your orders.
Not on purpose.
Raymond, I've got Frank here.
Just the three of us? Just us three.
Morning, Raymond.
My contacts in Beijing tell me the Minister of Commerce is in a tizzy.
Wants to use this as an excuse to start clenching fists.
Well, either I turn my back on Cathy, or I stand behind her.
It's gotta be the former.
I agree.
If you don't apologize, you go from ruffling feathers to plucking them.
And the Chinese won't stand for that, Mr.
President.
What about perceived miscommunication between me and my Cabinet? Mr.
President, right now the goal is to resume the talks.
I wouldn't worry about perceptions.
Frank is right.
We need to be pragmatic.
Worry about appearances later.
All right.
I'll have Catherine draft an apology.
No, it has to come from you, Mr.
President.
If the apology is to mean anything, it must come from the White House.
That is certainly the more likely to succeed.
Fine.
I'll do it then.
Thank you, Raymond.
Thank you, Garrett.
Do you hear how he still uses the President's given name? And that Walker doesn't flinch at the lack of respect it implies.
Sir, forgive me if this isn't the case, but you seem a bit hesitant.
Why do you say that? Well, you've raised a good point about public perception.
I don't want you to think that I'm dismissing your concerns casually.
No.
It's a concern for you, too? There is some insight into what Cathy brought up.
Backpedalling is weakness.
Well, it's always a coin toss with the Chinese.
But sometimes standing your ground is better than giving in.
They respect you more when you show strength.
Are you changing your mind on this, Frank? I just think it's important that you do what you think is best.
The American people voted you President, not me, not Raymond Tusk.
I'll let you know what I decide.
Thank you, sir.
You think she's Underwood's choice? He deflected, so it's possible.
You and I, we need to work together on this, Wes, before we both get screwed.
I agree.
One of us drops out, throws support to the other.
That'll dwarf any following she has.
You want me to drop out.
I'll make sure you get my Chairmanship on Appropriations.
All you can offer me is Ethics, which nobody wants.
Let's put this to bed, Wes.
Webb must have offered him a deal.
Then we have to offer a better one.
I'm guessing Appropriations.
There's no way I can top that Except for Ways and Means.
I won't let you give your Chair to an ass like Buchwalter.
If you're the Whip, you outrank him and every other Chairman.
Screw committees.
I'll have a direct line to the Speaker.
Don't be stubborn, Jackie.
You think he'd take it? He was willing to take a deal from Webb.
But you're the only person he hates more.
He's a brute, but he's not an idiot.
Well, I know you're not refusing out of loyalty.
True.
So it's because of Ted.
You think you are hot shit, don't you? Can we set egos aside and talk business like the adults we are? I want more than Ways and Means.
Tell me.
I want Havemeyer gone.
Not just retired.
Politically dead.
That race was 12 years ago.
That was 12 years I could have been in the Senate.
Revenge? Really? Not revenge.
Equity.
Well, what are you gonna do? Buchwalter won't budge.
You know, there's nothing I despise more in life than pettiness.
I could approach Webb, but I don't have enough to offer him.
He'd never drop out.
Too much pride.
I'm not sure what to do.
This is my file on Ted.
An illegitimate daughter.
The nanny, of course.
Her name is Emily Rodriguez, I know about Emily.
Well, then why are we having this conversation? It's complicated.
The daughter? It's very black and white to me.
I've known Ted since I was born.
He and my father were very close.
Yeah, I'm aware.
He's always looked out for me.
He got me into West Point.
He funded my first race.
I like Ted.
He's always been a team player.
It's unfortunate he has this secret.
It was a mistake, one he's always regretted.
After she was born, he asked me to check in on her, because he couldn't, because he trusted me.
I see.
You came in here knowing what you had to do, hoping I would pull a rabbit out of a hat, so you wouldn't have to.
I know the girl.
I know her mother.
These people don't deserve this.
I've given you all I can.
Whatever you decide is your prerogative.
But maybe I misjudged you.
Ted is family to me.
An adopted daughter in lieu of a real one.
Sir, the Secretary is here.
Thank you.
Send her in.
Excuse us.
It's good.
Not too long? A little bit, but not much.
This part, three paragraphs in.
About the phone companies? Tell me more.
It's one of Homeland Security's major concerns.
That the cyber attacks might infiltrate phone carriers, get access to millions of people's data history.
Like who they called? Yeah, who they called, texted, what they texted, when, where they were, everything.
And that's possible? There haven't been any catastrophic breaches yet.
At least not reported.
But it looks like the Chinese are starting to recruit mercenaries on the Deep Web to launch guerilla-type attacks that can't be tracked back Wait, wait, wait.
Hold on.
The Deep Web.
I've heard of that.
Yeah, yeah.
No, 96% of the Internet isn't accessible through standard search engines.
Most of it is useless.
But it's where you go to find anything and everything.
Child porn, Bitcoin laundering, mail-order narcotics, hackers for hire.
How do you access it? It's actually pretty easy.
I could show you if you want.
Yeah, I'm curious.
Mind if I Go ahead.
Okay, first thing you need is TOR.
Some people prefer I2P, but I think TOR is better.
What is TOR? It protects you through proxy servers.
Keeps you anonymous.
Then I'll show you how to get to the posting boards and the IRCs.
But I gotta warn you, be careful what you click.
Some crazy shit there, man.
For too long, we've danced on egg shells regarding the issue of cyber warfare.
Now, Secretary Durant acted on instructions that came directly from me.
Now, if the Chinese are not willing to engage in a meaningful dialogue about intellectual properly of American corporations as well as this deliberate targeting of our government's online infrastructure, well, then that is proof of a double-standard mentality that we shall no longer tolerate.
Our delegation to the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade was unfairly accused and defamed by representatives of the United States government.
The People's Republic of China will not be threatened by derisive and unsubstantiated claims.
As long as the White House continues to behave this way, any future bilateral trade talks will be impossible.
It caught me by surprise, too.
Did you say anything to him after I hung up yesterday? No.
Have you spoken to him? Yeah, a few minutes ago.
He said he did what he thought was right.
Well, there's nothing we can do to combat that.
He doesn't usually go against my advice without giving me fair warning.
What are you suggesting, Raymond? He's easily manipulated.
Clearly, not in this case.
We need to fix this.
And I'm counting on you for that, Frank.
Let me freshen your memory.
I don't owe you any favors.
I promised to work with you, not for you.
And when it comes to China, we both want the same thing.
So we need to work together.
To convince Garrett he should retract.
To support the President in the path that he's chosen.
While he continues to antagonize them publicly.
While he continues to benefit from a bump in approval ratings.
A tough stance on China is popular, and we can use that to our advantage.
Let's just be patient and see if we can smooth things over from back channels.
If I don't see any results, you won't have my patience for long.
That's understood.
Let me know what Durant has to say.
Absolutely.
Thank you, Mr.
Vice President.
I thought he might balk at taking a handout from me.
I'd call it more than a handout.
Well, he's always been the sort of man who could be bought, but never cheaply.
It's not the Chairmanship that bought him, Ted.
What do you mean? I'm telling you this so that you have time to call your wife and prepare your statement.
What's my out? What does he want from me? There is no out.
He wants it to hurt.
You told him.
I just promised him that I could make it happen.
You can't do this, Jackie.
The story's breaking tomorrow.
What part of it? No names.
Just that you have a daughter.
Have you thought about what this will do to Diane? To our sons? I hate myself for it.
But I'll get over that.
What about her? Emily.
You can't even say her name, can you? Don't lecture me.
You've never been in the same room with her.
She's had the best treatment available.
Alone, hooked up to machines, surrounded by nurses who punch out at dinnertime.
You don't know what I've been through.
You? What about her? I can't do more than I've done.
That's bullshit, Ted.
You could've found a way.
I won't defend myself to you.
Don't.
Save that for your wife.
This isn't to punish you, Ted.
It's simpler than that.
When I first encouraged you to run for office, it's because I sensed how unstoppable you were.
But I never thought I'd have to lie down on the tracks myself.
If you're going to put my neck in the noose, look me in the eye while you do it.
I'm very grateful for all that you've done for me.
You'll make an excellent Whip, Jacqueline.
Now please get out of my office.
What are you doing? It's finally quiet.
It is, isn't it? We have our fortress now.
Where are you coming from? My new office.
They just finished setting it up today.
Do you like it? It's an office.
It's fine.

Raising the age of retirement is an unacceptable erosion of the American Dream.
If the Republicans fail to pass a reasonable Omnibus package by demanding entitlement reform, they will force the federal government into a spending freeze.
The frostbite will be on their hands.
Not ours.
Do you think that's a bit much? The frostbite bit? Well, it's the State of the Union, sir.
We want to appeal to the flyover states.
They'll like that line.
I want something more forceful.
- "Blood on their hands"? - No.
"Throw us back into the ice age.
" Oh, I like that, Christina.
Let's keep that.
Linda.
Christina, you come up here, too.
There are two types of Vice Presidents.
Doormats and matadors.
Which do you think I intend to be? Raymond.
He's hung up on the domestic agenda.
Not a single word about China.
His instincts are right.
If the government shuts down one day after the speech, not a single word in the speech matters.
We have to address the freeze now.
China comes later.
Both parties have been wrangling over entitlements for months.
What makes you think a miracle is gonna happen in the next three days? We give the Republicans exactly what they want.
Retirement age? Yes.
That's a line in the sand we cannot cross.
We will cross it eventually, so why keep fighting it? I can push this through the Senate.
And once I do, the President will announce a major bipartisan agreement in the State of the Union.
We avoid a government shutdown, and the White House gets credit.
It's a huge risk.
And if it fails, a huge embarrassment.
The embarrassment will be entirely my own.
This is on my shoulders.
Even so, the President is gonna require some serious persuasion.
I'm happy to talk to him.
No.
No.
I'll do it.
He'll be more amenable if it comes from a friend.
You're right.
A trusted confidant.
Let me test the waters.
The Cult of Tusk.
Membership, one.
But that one disciple just so happens to be the most powerful man in the free world.
For now.
The entitlements.
Raising the age of eligibility to 67.
Your people will never go for it.
They will if the leadership does.
And the leadership will.
They fought us on this since I was in diapers.
Assuming that I can get this past my people and convince them, can you convince yours? It's a tough sell.
You're the senate majority leader, Hector.
You don't have to sell.
You can dictate.
What do you want in return? A working government.
We stave off the freeze.
You won on education.
We confirmed you as Vice President.
The Republicans need a win, Frank.
And that's what I'm offering.
You get a win on entitlements.
We avoid a shutdown.
Everyone gets points for bipartisanship.
You know who I'm worried about.
Curtis Haas.
He's a troublemaker, Frank.
Who controls a third of your caucus.
And he'll never go for this.
He wants to see the Democrats suffer.
Just bring him to the table.
That's all I'm asking.
Miss Gallagher? My name is Lucas Goodwin.
I'm a deputy editor at The Washington Herald.
Mr.
Goodwin, please.
Just a few moments.
That's all I'm asking.
If I wanted to talk to you, I would have returned your calls.
Did you read my e-mails? Yes.
Which is why I didn't call.
Give me a chance to walk you through it.
I have to get back to the White House.
I'm sorry.
Peter Russo was killed.
Let go.
So was Zoe Barnes.
I was working with her.
Stop and listen Frank Underwood is the one who did this.
Listen! This is nuts.
The DUI.
The BRAC hearings.
All of it was part of This has to stop.
Okay? Did Underwood talk to you? Tell you not to speak with anybody? No.
7 Doug Stamper- Whatever you think happened, whatever compelled you to stalk me like this You're the only person who might know something.
Who could understand.
I've got no one else I can talk I don't understand.
And I don't want to.
Okay? There's no story here.
Please, just five minutes.
Just think about what you're doing.
Waiting outside of a building Peter would still be alive if it wasn't for Frank Underwood.
I've worked really hard to put Peter behind me.
So, if I see you again, if I hear from you again, I'll not only contact the police.
I'll let the Vice President know what you're saying about him, and then you can deal with the Secret Service, too.
It's the usual overseas chatter.
Bit of a bump in China, but we chalk that up to the trade tensions.
Secret Service.
Average number of death threats to both POTUS and the VP.
We passed them along to our dear friends at the FBI.
FBI? The FBI confirms the level of activity of our dear friends at the Secret Service.
We followed up on everything.
No high-level threats.
So nothing we need to report directly to the President or Vice President? No.
Thank you, gentlemen.
The e-mail you sent.
Has anyone else seen it? Except for the agent that alerted me, no.
Other agencies might have stumbled upon this.
Even so, they probably ignored it.
Any idea who's making the posts? Deep Web forums.
Almost impossible to trace.
Lone wolf, most likely.
I want you to find him.
We need a direct threat to life.
The Vice President just assumed office.
I can't have this conspiracy stuff going mainstream.
This sort of thing usually fizzles out I can't take the chance.
I want you to find him and put him away.
He hasn't committed a crime.
But he wants to.
So help him.
That requires manpower.
You've got men.
It exposes me, Doug.
I've always kept you informed because you're an old pal and I trust you.
But We're talking about an operation.
I'm an old pal who now works at the White House.
Between old pals, I've been stuck as the executive liaison for way too long.
How worried are you that a mass shooting could happen in a school in your community? Great deal, somewhat, not so much, not at all, unsure? You sound hot.
Are you hot? Sir Somewhat hot? A great deal hot? Lynchburg Children's, Pediatric Division.
Can I talk to Cheryl Posner? Sorry.
She's on duty right now.
It's her daughter.
Hold on one moment.
Rachel? Rachel? Sweetheart, are you there? Please,  Hello? Hello, Mr.
Jay.
My name is Rachel and I'm calling on behalf of the National Firearm Education Center.
Would you be able to speak with me briefly regarding firearm legislation and Second Amendment protection? So, you're Willa's top choice.
Why should you be my husbands and my top choice? Over the past 10 years the two of you combined have gotten less coverage than the average junior congressman from Nebraska.
Well, we don't seek the spotlight I'm not suggesting you should.
But am I correct in assuming that your husband will be an active Vice President? It's harder to keep an active VP out of the press than in it, but it's possible if we give the media just enough to keep them from starving.
Where'd you grow up, Connor? Texas.
Just like you.
Dallas? Lubbock.
I had a much thicker accent to get rid of than y'all.
How do you know I had one? Your first joint interview, when your husband was running for state assembly in '86.
That's on the Internet? No.
No.
I contacted the local affiliate in Greenville.
They wouldn't send me the tapes via mail, so I went down there and watched in their vault.
To South Carolina? When I want a job, I do my homework.
I look forward to seeing what you come up with.
Thank you, Mrs.
Underwood.
Thursday.
I don't see how this is a victory for us.
Our choices are the freeze, which the Democrats get blamed for, or Not necessarily.
The Republican No, which we definitely get blamed for.
Or we offer them Entitlements, Frank? We took a stand.
We can't turn back now.
I'd rather see the government grind to a halt.
Think of the headline, "Democratic Leadership Enacts Entitlement Reform, "Staves Off Freeze.
 We show unity.
We offer progress.
Let's convert some lifelong conservatives.
You have Mendoza's assurance he'll work with us? I do.
I don't want to put our necks out there just to have the guillotine fall.
You won't.
My neck will be right out there with you.
Oh, Francis faints at the sight of blood.
He'd never let them break the skin.
To unity.
No, no, no, no, no.
Come on.
Larry, can you come by? Something weird's going on with my computer.
Thanks.
Come on! Hey, what's the problem? Nothing.
It's fine.
I fixed it.
Okay.
Cool.
It's not as progressive as I'd like.
You mean radical.
Raising retirement age to 67 makes entitlements solvent until 2055.
And it saves us over a trillion dollars without a single penny of taxpayer income.
Sixty-eight would give us another 300 billion.
And I'd like to eliminate early retirement.
Entirely? Forget it.
What about 68 and 64? I have a responsibility to my constituents.
I promised I wouldn't waver when Are we really going to allow the Tea Party to determine fiscal legislation? I've never been beholden to the Tea Party.
Oh, come on, Curtis.
You wouldn't have won reelection if their PACs hadn't dumped If their definition of budgetary conservatism happens to overlap with mine, that's a function Curtis.
Curtis.
Let's show some goodwill.
Can you stomach 68 and 64? Effective immediately? Five years from now.
Not interested.
Well, you know we can't throw this on people without any warning.
They need some time to digest.
I'm sorry.
I just can't do it.
Okay.
Meet with your staff.
Consult with your colleagues.
I'll consult with mine.
And let's talk tomorrow.
All right.
I can agree to that But this is a good first step.
How do we make sure Curtis can't filibuster when we get the amendment passed? Assuming we do.
Between you and me, I'm sure we can turn him around.
I just want to be on the safe side.
We make sure the passage of the amendment constitutes the passage of the bill.
By previous agreement.
Yeah, that's right.
We pass the amendment, and then we're done.
Wham, ham.
Can we put that in writing? Have Erikson reach out to me.
Muchas gracias.
Lucas Goodwin? Good evening, Lucas.
Speak into the microphone.
Who are you? Go to the home screen.
Open the other app.
Tell me who you are.
You've done your research.
You know who I am.
Well, I know who you claim to be.
And if you're not convinced by now, goodbye,.
Wait.
All right, I'm on the home screen.
Open the notary app.
What is this? To ensure you aren't law enforcement.
I'm I'm not.
Then sign.
How? Hold your thumb to the camera and press "capture? How do I know you're not law enforcement? Sign the document or walk away.
All right.
I did it.
Press send.
 Where is this going? I'm VPNing through Iran and 12 other countries.
Don't worry.
It's secure.
Now, one last thing.
I need the hive-step verification code for the Heralds internal servers.
I don't even know how to do that.
Yes, you do.
Check your e-mail.
Destroy the iPad, especially the serial number, and delete the e-mail after you've memorized it.
Good luck.
Hello? Raymond, are you there? Yeah.
Uh Sorry, Frank.
I thought I saw an Inca dove.
Must have flown the wrong direction for winter.
It sounds windy.
Where are you? Top of my building.
Got a bird feeder up here.
Nice work with the President.
I hear we have a green light.
He pushed back in the beginning, but yeah.
His writers are reworking the speech now.
I'm very close to a deal.
Spending cuts as discussed.
Is that rock solid? Soon as we shake hands.
What's the hold-up? Curtis Haas, which isn't a surprise.
I'm meeting with him soon.
He's the final hurdle.
Cutting it pretty close, Frank.
Well, this is historic.
The Republicans have wanted entitlement reform since Johnson.
Curtis will come around.
In the meantime, we should get the new retirement ages into the speech, I would stay away from the specifics, Frank.
I mean, even if it passes, the House might I know the House better than you know birds, Raymond.
Believe me when I say they'll pass the Senate version.
I'll talk 10 the President.
Just make sure this is airtight.
Thank you.
What is it? Lucas Goodwin.
From the Herald.
He must have been working with Zoe.
How much does he know? No more than she did.
She knew enough.
I'm on it, sir.
Proof? Not yet.
Jesus, Doug.
It's under control.
I just thought you should be aware.
I'm juggling the President, the Republicans, Tusk.
I can't And you should stay focused on that Goodwin's on my plate.
Not yours.
It wasn't until the 20th century that the notion of noble objectivism came into the forefront.
Whoa! But facts are facts.
George Bush, Sr.
is shown asking how a grocery scanner works, and he gets nailed for it.
Fact? They were showing him a new model.
He was asking how the new one was different than the old one.
Curiosity, not ignorance.
But the lack of context told a more powerful narrative.
There is no arrangement of facts that is purely objective.
We can finally do something.
We have the means to act.
Some teenage pimple-faced hacker This was a sophisticated infiltration.
It's not the work of a child.
Look.
Here's the e-mail.
Heronymous Bot.
The FBI's been hunting him for years.
Lucas, listen to me If we get these records, I'll need your help tracking timelines, piecing together the chronology No.
You want somebody to hold your hand and say it's okay to go on this fucking goose chase.
You shouldn't be teaching in Ithaca.
You're better than that.
You should be back home I belong here.
Droning on to a bunch of hungover English majors? Exactly.
You're wrong about the truth.
There is objective truth.
He killed her.
You know it's a fact.
Here's a fact.
My mom has I've seen her more in the past month than since I left for school.
It's simpler here.
It's quiet.
I need that.
She needs me.
I'm sorry, Lucas.
I'm sorry that night howl reacted.
I'm sorry you lost your girlfriend.
I'm sorry the world is this fucked up.
I really am.
But I can't help you.
Where's everyone else? I did you a disservice yesterday.
We shouldn't have put you on the spot in front of all the leadership.
Have a seat, Curtis.
We know that you have an obligation to take a firm stance.
But entitlement reform is something you ran on.
And now it's within your grasp.
So tell us your fears.
That the Democrats get another win.
We suffer in the midterms.
And the next Congress dismantles the agreement.
You think we're being disingenuous.
My constituents don't trust the administration.
I can't have them thinking the wool's been pulled over our eyes.
As I suspected.
Hector? Frank and I propose this, we include a super majority point of order against revisiting the issue for 10 years.
You have it in black and white.
A serious, long-term commitment with no opportunity to dismantle.
And that's on top of everything else we asked for.
VA services and FEMA stay at current levels.
Everything else at 80 to 100% of the cuts you propose.
You get your win, Curtis.
We just avoid disaster.
Maybe the country needs to see what disaster looks like.
The Tea Party has a strong voice, and you're its bullhorn.
Show your people that voice can translate into law and not just add to the noise.
Fifteen years before revisitation.
Not 10.
Okay.
And if the House fails to pass the bill after we do, you go on record blaming your own party for the gridlock.
I believe we have a deal.
What are you listening to? I'm sorry.
I'll turn No, it's nice.
Can I listen? My ears are clean.
I promise.
Thanks.
It's beautiful.
Yeah.
It's so sad.
It helps me relax.
Long day? I work at a call center.
So, yeah.
I'll leave you alone.
You probably don't want lo talk lo another one.
It's all right.
As long as you don't hang up on me.
Do you ever just talk to them? The strangers? We're not allowed to.
All I would want to do is ask them about who they are.
What about you? What do you do? L, um I work at the bookstore and the daycare center.
I had that same look on my face the first time somebody handed me one of those.
Yeah, I'm I'm just I'm not religious.
Just keep it.
Check it out.
Or don't.
We've got really good music there.
Thank you.
We sent a bill to the Senate.
What Frank wants to send back bears zero resemblance.
Because it's bipartisan.
Unlike ours.
That sounds like something Frank would say.
I'm not Frank.
He has a desk in your office.
If this bill passes in the Senate It won't.
We should be prepared, Bob.
Well, I'm prepared to wait and see.
Have a good afternoon, ladies.
"Ladies"? He's threatened.
He's a pig.
Give him time.
He used to have two white middle-aged guys at his side.
Now he's got a black guy And a woman 20 years his junior.
Who knows how to shoot a rifle.
We just need to keep at him.
Yes? Catalina Rodriguez is on line four.
Give me a moment.
Catalina.
Ted told me it was you.
You there? Yes, I'm here.
The press won't leave us alone.
For weeks they're showing up, trying to get pictures of me and Emily.
It wasn't me.
You're the only one who knew.
I don't know how the story got out.
Why would Ted lie about that? I don't know.
Maybe he's ashamed.
So what do I do? When will they leave us alone? I don't know, Catalina.
I can't live like this.
I'm sorry.
I don't know what to say.
How is Emily doing? Catalina? He's very confident.
Yeah, but does he have what it takes? We'll see when I get his media plan.
What about his personality? Charming.
Direct.
Very thorough.
He found our first interview together, in '86.
I would love to see that.
Does he have a copy? I don't think so.
The TV station made him watch it there.
We should screen that for the President and the First Lady.
Show 'em how it's done.
Christina What about her? Have you noticed anything strange between her and the President? How do you mean? I passed them in the hall yesterday.
And they seem I don't know Very intimate.
They did seem cozy at the prep session.
Do you think No.
Not necessarily.
An interesting thought, though.
Sorry to interrupt, sir.
We're having lunch.
The Republicans are backing out.
Mendoza's chief of staff just gave me the heads-up.
Get Mendoza on the phone.
It's Curtis Haas.
He got cold feet.
Keep them in cages.
It's really kinda like marine, but people look at them.
It's kind of fun.
I got your e-mail.
Now good for you? Yeah, sure.
Can I call you right back? What exactly did you need to know? We're doing some follow-up pieces on the cyber warfare thing.
I just wanted to get a layman's understanding of how the Chinese might get through a firewall.
It's a bit complicated, but I could show you the basics.
That's all I need.
We use a standard N-tier architecture.
Think of it like a big sandwich with layers of bread.
Between each is the lettuce, the tomato, the roast beef, whatever.
What I'm pulling up here is the org code, which separates the database Shit.
I forgot there's a meeting with sales in a couple minutes.
You want to do this later? No.
I'll just run over and let them know I'll be a few minutes late.
Be right back.
Cool.
I'll be here.
Okay.
Come on, come on, come on, come on.
There.
Come on.
Okay.
Delete.
Go.
Something wrong? Can't find my phone.
It's weird.
I had it just a minute ago.
Oh! Here it is.
Sorry about that No problem.
So the N-tier architecture.
The high-tech sandwich I was talking about.
I thought Mendoza was willing to work with us.
He is.
The problem is Curtis Haas.
Mmm-mmm.
And have you spoken with him? His office isn't returning our calls.
Neither is Mendoza's.
4.
I should've stuck to my guns.
The vote isn't until tomorrow afternoon.
I'll reach out to Mendoza first thing in the This is the State of the Union, Frank.
I won't be left in limbo.
If we need to start rewriting that speech now, I don't want to waste a minute.
I can turn this around, sir.
You know, Raymond told me this was your idea.
To pursue this compromise.
I suggested it as an option.
He said you bullied him into it.
That he thought it was a mistake.
If he felt so strongly, he should have advised you otherwise.
Raymond is not a politician.
He relies on our political expertise as much as we rely on his business acumen.
Maybe we shouldn't point fingers until there's a problem.
You wouldn't call this a problem? Not if it's solved before it becomes one.
You see, I wanted a vice president who can manage Congress.
Not one who bites off more than he can chew.
Then have faith you made the right choice, sir.
Whatever faith I have is quickly evaporating.
Don't humiliate the administration, Frank.
You're part of it now.
Yes, sir.
We're done.
Thank you, Mr.
President.
Give me the private line, please.
Tusk is blocking my way.
Goodwin at my heels.
There can be no false steps now.
The higher up the mountain, the more treacherous the path.
Lucas Goodwin went up to visit her.
They may be looking for you.
Nobody's contacted me.
I don't think anyone knows I'm here.
Then we need to make sure it stays that way.
Don't speak to anyone you don't have to.
Don't go anywhere you don't need to be.
Tell me you heard what I said.
I heard you.
I get it.
I'm fine.
Put some ice on it.
I said it's okay.
What is this? What, are you going through my garbage now? Someone gave it to me on the bus.
You let me know if anyone contacts you.
Hey-Hey- Sorry I'm late.
No worries.
How much more you want to do right now? Fill in this area? Yeah.
And one more poppy down here.
That's a lot for one sitting.
I know.
Okay.
Francis? You're heading in? Mendoza's an early riser.
You'll figure this out.
I need to prove what the Vice President is capable of.
Don't prove it to them.
Prove it to me.
Curtis has me by the tea bags, Frank.
I don't have a working majority without him.
He wasn't elected leader.
True.
But I have to pick my battles.
If you can't control him on budgetary issues It's not just him.
It's the 15 senators he has under his thumb.
I won't be the leader next year if they turn on me.
So he wants to be courted.
Sit him down I already tried talking to him.
He wouldn't budge.
Then we'll both talk to him.
He's made his position clear.
We all shook hands at this table.
The most I can do is put the substitute amendment on the floor with limited debate.
Now, your people can say whatever they want for the record.
But we're gonna vote the amendment down.
I am not interested in symbolic gestures.
Well, that's all I can offer.
Where's your courage? My power has limits, Frank.
Five Republicans makes you the deciding vote.
Now, it's highly doubtful we can get them to vote against their own party.
- But they might abstain.
- You'd need 10.
Entitlement is the Republicans' white whale.
I can get at least two of 'em to flip.
And you'd only need six abstaining.
- Erikson's already making calls.
- Donner? And Pulaski.
All right.
Get me a call list so I can tag-team with him.
Got it right here.
We have to get medieval.
When it comes to parliamentary procedure, there's not a rule I don't know, sir.
Find me the ones we can bend.
Mark, you're a sensible man.
Yes, I know I understand.
What if Tell you what.
What if both VA hospitals in your district Yes, both of them.
Hold on.
Who? Moriarty.
I promised him an amendment for his bovine research center.
That makes six.
Mark, if I can get you funding for both, are you with us? Excellent.
Well, you come by the White House and have lunch with me sometime soon.
Bye-bye.
We have the numbers.
Once you break the quorum call, it's gonna be a little tricky.
Tell me on the way.
Sir.
Sir.
We might not have a majority.
What? The Dems are poaching people.
Donner, Pulaski.
Maybe more.
Voting for the amendment? Some.
Others abstaining.
I'm still trying to figure out who.
Well, we need to delay and figure out what the fuck's going on.
Quorum call.
There's 49 hours until the recess.
We call a name an hour.
Yeah.
- Mr.
Avendale? - Here.
Excuse me.
I do believe you're sitting in my chair.
Mr.
Drewry, what is the order of business? We are in a quorum call' sir.
Then why aren't you calling the roll? We are, sir.
In a deliberate manner.
Let's speed it up.
Mr.
Brown? Here.
More expeditious than that.
Mr.
Burr? Here.
Ms.
Cantwell? Here.
Mr.
Cerini? Cornwall? Here.
Mr.
Colson? Here.
Ms.
Dauster.
Here.
They have a quorum.
We don't have the numbers.
Out.
Let's get all our people out.
- Mr.
Dammeral.
Mr.
Darling.
- Here.
- Mr.
Daswani.
Mr.
Donner.
- Here.
Faster.
Mr.
Dobbins, Mr.
Dwyer.
- Engel, Erikson.
- Here.
Felp.
Ferrison.
Gentry.
Mr.
Haas.
Whitehouse.
Here.
Mr.
Wicker.
Mr.
Wyden.
Mr.
President, a quorum is not present The chair recognizes the minority leader, Mr.
Erikson.
Mr.
President, "I move to direct the Sergeant-at-Arms "to compel the attendance of absent Senators, "that warrants for the arrests of all senators not sick nor excused "be issued under the signature of the presiding officer.
" The question is on the motion.
All those in favor say "Aye.
" Aye.
All those opposed, "Nay.
" Nay.
The ayes have it, and the motion is agreed to.
The Sergeant-of-Arms is hereby instructed to compel the attendance of absent senators.
It feels good to be back in Congress.
The Democrats have now empowered the Capitol Police to arrest absent members if necessary,.
According to Republican Senator Curtis Haas, one of the staunchest opponents of the entitlement amendment, the vice president is, quote, "Replacing democracy with tyranny.
"He's transformed the Senate into a police state within the Capitol.
 But Well, it'll be even harder to stay out of the news now.
Then why the joint interview? I watched the South Carolina one again.
Convinced them to make me a copy.
It's powerful.
Here you go.
I thought you might want it.
There's a moment where you ran your fingers through his hair.
It's intimate and human.
That moment alone would've made me want to vote for your husband.
Something like that will buy you months of flying beneath the radar.
And who do you have in mind to conduct the interview? Does this mean I have the job? It means you still haven't been ruled out.
Well, I'll consider that progress.
This is the Democratic cloak room, Hector.
Yours is on the other side.
What you're doing won't work.
It might.
Which is why you made the long walk over here.
Ice water? I have my people in planes, trains, and automobiles.
All I need is six to make my quorum.
Think what I can do with 26 votes.
And I've got 45.
You won't be able to get your planes and trains back here fast enough.
I'll roll those dice.
The Sergeant-at-Arms is very good at his job.
And this is a perfect way to show Curtis who's in charge.
I'm doing you a favor, Hector.
Tell me what you want.
What I've always wanted.
The package we shook hands on.
Then I'll give you your Senate back.
They can't come back voluntarily.
Pick your six best actors.
We can't give in, Hector.
We wouldn't be in this situation had you toed the party line.
Mr.
Mendoza is present.
Under protest.
Ms.
Cornwall is present.
Under protest.
Mr.
Ullman is present.
Mr.
Walsh is present.
Ms.
Dauster is present.
And Mr.
Haas is present Mr.
President, a quorum is now present.
You can pass the amendment.
I'll just filibuster the main bill.
No, you won't.
Watch me.
As much as I'd like to see you hold your piss for two days, we struck a deal with Hector.
The passage of the substitute amendment constitutes passage of the main bill.
I wasn't informed of that.
Pay attention to the fine print, Curtis.
It's far more important than the selling price.
Let's go.
I want an immediate call of the roll.
Don't let half a second pass.
Yes, sir.
A quorum is present.
The question is on the adoption of the substitute amendment to HR 934.
The yeas and nays have been ordered, and the clerk will call the roll.
Mr.
Abner? Aye.
Mr.
Avendale? Aye.
Mr.
Brown? I'd like to propose an amendment to HR 93 Mr.
Haas, you are out of order.
The roll call has begun.
The clerk will continue to call the roll.
- Mr.
Brown? Mr.
- Aye.
Ms.
Cantwell? Aye.
Mr.
Cerini? Aye.
Mr.
Chess? Aye.
Ms.
Cornwall? Nay.
Mr.
Colson? #!'m so secure # You're here with me # You stay the same # Your love remains # Herein my hear! I So close I believe # You're holding me now # in your arms I belong # You'll never let me go # So close I believe you're holding me now # in your arms I belong # You'll never let me go # So close I believe I Hey.
Hey.
I'm glad you came.
Yeah.
Me, too.
What'd you think? The music was really beautiful.
Not what you expected? I wasn't sure what to expect.
I'm Lisa.
Rachel.
Sorry.
No.
We've got cookies and cake inside, if you Oh, I think I'm gonna If you want to meet some of my friends Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah? Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
We should add "miracle worker" to your resume, Frank.
Lazarus makes for a good magic act, but life would have been a lot easier if the bastard hadn't died in the first place.
Well, the President wanted lo go ballistic, but I calmed him down.
I said, "Don't worry.
Frank'll pull this out.
" Did you? I don't blame you for being two-faced, Raymond.
It's good politics, as long as you don't get caught at it.
Now, Frank, if you think that I It's okay, Raymond.
Jesus forgives you.
Good night.
Hello? Hello? Care for some wine? No.
Step in the room.
Closer.
Closer.
State your name and the date.
Wait, why? I State your name and the date, please.
Lucas Goodwin.
February 13th.
Year.
Are you currently or have you ever been a member of What is this? Are you currently or have you ever been a member of any law enforcement agency? I already told you I wasn't.
Two-step verification.
No, I'm not.
And I haven't.
Are you currently or have you ever been an informant for law enforcement? No.
You think you might have been followed? Anything strange the past few weeks? You know what? This is making me feel uncomfortable.
We're not fucking around here.
If you think the FBI hasn't been tracking your posts, then you're naive.
You think they know who I am? No.
You hid yourself well.
What are you going to do with the Herald? Nothing.
Then why did you want access? I already had access.
It's how I contacted you in the first place.
Just needed to know if you were serious.
That's Cashew.
Why did you contact me? Because you're desperate.
And I'm not fond of authority.
Just today, under the leadership of Vice President Underwood, the Senate passed HR 934, along with an historic entitlement reform amendment.
By raising the retirement age to 68 and 64, for normal and early retirement, respectively, we will ensure entitlements for generations to come,.
And when the House passes that bill in a few weeks, as I fully expect it to do, we will put the government freeze to rest.
We will continue the business of sewing our country, rather than paralyzing it.
The American people deserve no less.
We stand at the altar of democracy, Let us stand together.
I spoke to Jackie.
You have my support in the House.
But it hasn't passed the House yet.
There's along march before it arrives on the President's desk.
As for me, I used to be on the edge of the frame.
Now I'm only three feet away.

Strange not seeing your name up there.
"To improve is to change.
" "To perfect is to change often.
" You know your Churchill.
It's inscribed on the watch you gave me when I left for Glendon Hill.
Was it? Nancy arranges all the gifts.
She knows you well.
As much as I am enjoying this little I got you two more votes.
Partridge and Krauss.
Is this Raymond's way of extending an olive branch? It's a start.
Two votes is a twig.
It's not a branch.
Which is why I'm here.
Well, the vote's at 5:00.
We have less than three hours.
Two hours and 49 minutes.
We have made more happen in less.
Is that the watch? No.
it's nicer.
So, why did Raymond have a change of heart? If the government grinds to a halt, that benefits no one.
We want the President focused on China, not distracted by furloughs and protests.
You take direction from Jacqueline.
She's not gonna like that very much.
Bossing you around? Having me around.
Oh, I don't blame her.
Ashleigh will start the interview with questions about how you and your husband met, your early marriage.
Fine.
Then she'll move on to more specific questions about your recent transition.
All right.
She's gonna ask about you having no children.
I thought we'd agreed to take that off the table.
We did.
But they insisted.
Now I can speak to Ashleigh directly and fight for No.
It's fine.
I've been asked the question before.
I know how to answer it.
It'll be quick and painless.
And I'll confirm that with Ashleigh when she gets here.
I like it.
Maybe something less neutral.
I'm sure you'll look good in whatever you choose.
I'll be downstairs.
Disori owes you for the overpass funding you secured.
Yes, he does.
I'll call him.
Where's Doug? He's doing the rounds, making sure our hard-won stay hard.
Birch and Womack are doing the same.
But we're still 15 short.
Got relationships with most of these folks.
Money's not enough.
I already tried the D-trip route.
Retirement age is the main sticking point, correct? Old people vote.
I'll target the AARP.
That'll take most of the heat off.
We're wasting time.
I gotta get to work.
Take Remy with you.
Shouldn't we divide and conquer? It's harder to say no twice than once.
I'll stay out of your way.
Like you did on the Watershed Act? We're on the same side of the fence this time.
You're late to the party.
Well, think of Remy as the guy who shows up with a six-pack after the liquor store is closed.
Who's on your plate? Donald Blythe.
Do you really think that's the best use of your time? If I can get him to turn his people.
That's a lot of eggs to put in one basket We only have one basket.
Jacqueline, may I use your office, for old times' sake? I serve at the pleasure of the Vice President.
Two hours and 17 minutes.
Normally, all I need to sway Donald Blythe is patience and time, neither of which I have right now.
Tick took.
Donald.
Good to see you.
Mr.
Vice President.
Please, it's always "Frank" to you.
I came because you asked me, but don't mistake that for false hope.
If you have other people to lobby, you should.
Ten minutes.
It won't change anything.
Well, at the very least, enjoy the free coffee.
I don't drink caffeine.
Then decaf.
Still has caffeine.
Well, enjoy the free oxygen.
It's gets stuffy over there in the Longworth Building.
Coffee for me, and Seltzer water, if you have it.
I'm sure we do.
Now I can understand if you might hold a grudge.
I don't hold grudges, Frank.
I just don't negotiate with people who are fundamentally deceptive.
I never lied to you, Donald.
You promised to seek my counsel, which you never once did.
We had to move the Education Bill in a direction I knew would make you unhappy.
I saw no reason to frustrate You eviscerated the unions.
You federalized performance standards.
If we hadn't done that, the bill would've been dead in the water.
And now you want to cut the pathetic level of funding you did manage to pass.
Isn't some funding better than none? A flat line will send a louder message than life support.
Look, I'm impressed with the little coalition that you've cobbled together.
But we Not so little.
Twenty-eight votes.
And you need them all.
Well, really only half.
Half of zero is still zero.
I had to pull every trick in the book to get Entitlement through the Senate.
If it fails in the House, we don't get a round two.
This is a one-time deal.
It should never have passed the Senate to begin with.
Can we start over? May I offer you an apology? Deaf ears, Frank.
I withdrew myself from the Education fight, and that is my cross to bear.
But I will be damned if I will make the same mistake twice.
This sort of stubbornness makes you no better than the Tea Party.
Except for the fact that we happen to be right.
Just a few more minutes, Donald.
You haven't even had your seltzer yet.
They have seven other data centers spread across the Northeast.
Those aren't good odds.
Well, if we can access one, I should be able to talk to the other seven.
And they all look like that, Fort Knox wrapped in a nuclear bunker.
How do we get in? Well, we don't.
You do.
What? How? What's my reason? You're writing a story on cyberterrorism.
It's free publicity.
But if they're so secure, I'm They give tours all the time, mostly to prospective clients.
Then why haven't you done it yourself? Because I run a white hat firm.
And if I were to show up in the tour logs before a breach, it would raise alarms.
Okay, once I'm in? These are what the servers look like.
You're gonna get inside one of these cages.
You will have this.
You slide it into the server.
Voil.
It's that simple? Yeah.
Well, your part, not mine.
The codes extremely complex.
How do I do it without them noticing? How you get good at anything? Practice makes perfect.
We've got a problem.
Everyone, stop what you're doing, head into the nearest office and shut the door.
You, stay exactly where you are.
Retirement age is a done deal, but I might be able to redistribute some appropriations That's not what I'm after.
You can't fix a wrecked car with new hubcaps.
How about a sister bill, one that focuses entirely on education? My coalition is fighting for the integrity of the party.
We're not just focused on education.
I'm sorry, Donald.
Excuse me for a moment.
Nancy, I said no interrup When? But the vote is in less than an hour.
I don't care what protocol it Quarantine.
There's white powder in the mail.
We're locked in? Sir! Close the door now! Look, I have to Now, sir! Please! I should call my wife.
And I should call Claire.
Should I tell Connor? No.
It's better the press doesn't know.
The field tests should come in before the vote.
And as soon as the Kelly's in, I'll come home.
How's it looking? Shaky.
We may lose this one.
That could make for a tough interview.
Well, I didn't want to do it in the first place.
Well, we're committed now.
I better get back to the Holy Crusader.
Let me know as soon as the tests have cleared.
If we're lucky, it'll be anthrax, and I won't live long enough to see the bill fail.
Don't say that.
We're gonna be fine.
How many of these quarantines we've been through? I've lost count.
Wish me luck with Donald.
Heels crossed.
It's ripping the caucus apart.
Of course.
We take a united stand on our version of the bill.
Some of us have to stay on our feet.
This is about party unity.
It's about abandoning our base.
No, that's what the freeze is.
Our base doesn't benefit from sword-rattling.
It gets left bleeding on the field.
My district has the third largest number of seniors in the country.
If we raise the age of retirement, the AARP will raise hell.
I spoke with the President of the AARP this morning.
He'll be receiving a $45 million endowment next week.
Voters will still revolt.
The midterms are gonna be ugly.
Many of us, and I can certainly speak for myself The choice is between immediate discontinuation of services and an age bump five years from now.
You're comparing theoretical discomfort to imminent pain.
I just feel like we're losing touch with our core values.
The Education Bill is a good example.
We all followed Frank's lead, hoping it would buy us traction with the Republicans.
Would you excuse me? Just one moment.
Does the press know? Not yet.
Can you keep in touch with him? I need to pummel our lunch guests into submission.
You've got 'em close.
But relax.
Listen more.
They want their hands held, not someone in their face.
I know how to whip votes.
Best caviar in D.
C.
, ladies and gentlemen.
- We can't let you pay for that.
- Then don't eat it.
But if you do, I won't tell anyone.
You were saying about the Education Bill? No, Marjory, honey.
Remember, we just talked about it.
I was telling you Right.
Nothing to worry about If you have any questions, ask Molly.
She knows what's going on.
I will call as soon as I know anything.
I love you.
How's Marjory? She's okay.
Long call.
You know, she gets emotional.
Molly took a semester off to be at home.
I told her she needs to head back in the spring.
I don't want her mother dragging her down.
Must be hard on you.
Harder on the girls, I think.
Is she lucid? About half the time.
Just enough to be aware of how quickly she's going.
Awful.
I feel terrible saying it, but part of me is looking forward to her not being lucid.
At least then she won't realize what's happening.
I should have thought of this before.
Appeal to the heart, not the brain.
Forgive my ignorance, but has there been any progress with research? Some.
Genetic testing, vascular manipulation, but it's slow.
They won't come up with anything in time for Marjory.
We're focusing on quality of life.
Look, I know you have work to do, so I'm no longer the Whip.
That's Jacqueline's job.
I just agreed to meet with you because we have a history.
She would be tougher to say no to.
But it still would've been a "No.
" Yes.
I admire your convictions, Donald.
You're a rare breed nowadays.
It didn't sound that way when you were comparing us to the Tea Party.
I was being unfair.
You're not a reactionary.
You're a progressive.
I see where this is going.
How do you mean? When you've been in the wasteland as long as I have, you become immune to flattery.
Oh.
I know you think I'm fundamentally deceptive, but I am capable of a genuine compliment.
Then I will take it as one, but it won't soften my resolve.
If it did, you wouldn't deserve the compliment in the first place.
If you vote "No," I won't hold it against you.
We're all in this together through the midterms.
But if you stick with me, we can show both the Republicans and the American people that we're capable of more than stagnation.
And that's worth something, even it if hurts.
Who can I count on? Copy that.
The fact that there is still a door between us, I take, is a bad sign.
One tested negative, one inconclusive, sir.
That means we have to take the samples to the lab.
So, how much longer? Another three or four hours,.
We have an important vote going to the floor.
I have to be talking to my people.
The vote is delayed, sir.
We're evacuating this side of the capitol.
So no vote? No! until we get the all-clear.
Good things happen to good people.
Another thing, sir.
Ali cell phone service, Wi-Fi, land lines We'll be blocking them, in case there's a legitimate security threat.
I need to be able to call my wife.
I apologize, sir.
We can have someone notify her.
No.
It needs to be me.
She gets very anxious if she doesn't recognize the voice.
Congressman, I have strict instructions not to Figure it out, unless you want me to get the White House involved.
PH find a way, sir.
There are advantages to being Vice President.
Ma'am? We'll have to ask you lo remain up here for a little while.
Is it the quarantine? The Capitol is being evacuated.
We expect everything to be fine.
It's just standard procedure.
You won't be able to get through.
Communications are being jammed.
You mean I can't even speak to Francis? Not until the all-clear.
How long? Four hours is the estimate right now.
We're supposed to tape in 25 minutes.
Nothing we can do.
You okay? Yes.
I'll go talk 10 Emma.
You know, I'm fine.
Thank you.
Em.
So, we might have a problem.
It's all over the news.
It could be a while.
Can we get audio from the Vice President? Communications are being jammed until the evacuation is over.
Have you spoken to Ashleigh? She thinks we should get a sat truck down here.
Wait and go live.
I can't guarantee when that will be.
The Vice President is quarantined in the Capitol, and we have an exclusive.
The network will broadcast whenever the hell we tell them to.
They're holding off until you get here.
You should do the interview solo.
I'd rather wait.
Who knows whether we'll win the vote? If we lose, I don't want my face on national television.
This could be a silver lining.
I don't know, Francis.
I'm sure you'll be terrific.
Let me run it past Connor.
Okay.
Thank you.
We're done.
Sir, we were able to get Mrs.
Blythe.
Oh, Donald Marjory? Hello? Yes, it's me, sweetheart.
It's hard to hear you.
We're still stuck inside the office.
What office? At the Capitol.
It's going to be a little while longer.
But why are you there? It's Sunday.
No, it's Friday, sweetheart.
Donald? I'm here.
Who is this man with me? He's a police officer.
They're using walkie-talkies so we can speak.
Who am I talking to? It's your husband, ma'am.
I'm not married.
It's me.
It's Donald.
Turn it off.
I don't know that man.
Marjory She went into the other room, sir.
Okay.
Thank you.
If you could stay with her, please.
Yes, sir.
Drink? Sure.
Why not? For all we know, it could be midnight before he's out.
And then he still needs to manage the vote.
We're fine if it's 2:00 a.
m.
When everyone's asleep? People would stay up for this.
The whole point was primetime.
Then we do it tomorrow.
We've already set aside half a day for this.
The Vice President can't rearrange his entire schedule for an interview.
I don't see any other options.
I spoke to Francis over the radio.
We think I should do it alone.
Just you? Mrs.
Underwood and Ashleigh, one-on-one.
Maybe we can broadcast his voice from the Capitol.
Francis doesn't want the entire interview to be about the quarantine.
Neither do I.
That's just spectacle.
The quarantine is news.
We have a unique opportunity.
Fine.
We're done.
What? Cancel the interview.
No reschedule.
Come on, Connor.
Please pack up everything and leave.
Okay.
Let me call Ashleigh.
I thought I'd get used to it, but no.
Hurts every time.
You spend 30 years with someone, and then they don't have a damn clue who you are.
Ugh.
I really shouldn't If we never did anything we shouldn't do, we'd never feel good about doing the things we should.
Excellent point.
And if these are our last moments on Earth, I don't know about you, but I'd rather go out with a buzz on.
To Marjory.
You love her dearly.
More than anything.
I can't imagine what I'd do without Claire, or if she didn't remember who I was.
Hopefully, you'll never have to.
Well, it makes me angry that you do, that anybody does.
No sense being angry over what you can't change.
How much funding does Alzheimer's research get? Just under $500 million.
Well, I'm no expert, but that sounds inadequate to me.
It is.
For every $100 we allocate to research, we spend nearly $30,000 on care.
We ought to change that.
I tried.
My bill didn't even leave committee.
Who opposed it? Howard Webb.
Ugh Appropriations.
He didn't even put it to a vote.
I've never been fond of Howard.
That makes two of us.
What was his argument? He didn't feel he owed me one.
"Fiscally irresponsible," is all he said.
Walk me through the specifics of your bill.
I see what you're doing.
Doing what? You're disgusting, Frank.
Excuse me? Using my wife.
Donald, what are you saying? You think I'll give in on Entitlement if you slap some extra Alzheimer's funding on the table? I was not suggesting that at all.
Bullshit, Frank.
You think as little of me as you want, but I do not barter with people's health.
Then why are you trying to raise the age of retirement? Medical research we can afford.
Medicare, we can't.
There are realities, Donald.
Don't talk down to me about realities.
My wife is dying.
That's a reality.
Other people will die, too, if your package succeeds.
That's a reality! God damn it! I wish I wasn't stuck in this fucking room with you.
Donald? I'm done talking.
One more time.
I've got it.
I want it to sound more natural.
Francis and I wanted to devote our lives to public service.
And we didn't feel that we could both do that and be the parents we wanted to be.
And by making that choice, it allows more time for us to be in the service of others.
Good.
That sounds good.
We need you, Mrs.
Underwood.
Keep Derek at the Capitol.
I want quotes from evacuees and Homeland Security.
And Sarah should be finishing that history of biohazard scares.
I'll be there soon.
I have 10 go.
No.
We're not done yet.
This is a major story.
I'll come back tomorrow.
You've come here two days in a row, and this is how patterns emerge.
The FBI likes patterns, and we do not give the FBI what the FBI likes.
I can't disappear all day in the middle of I have eight reporters out in the field, okay? Stop.
Tell me why I purchased Cashew.
I don't know.
Companionship? Yes.
More importantly, a reminder that lam never more than one wrong move away from life in a cage.
You stay.
I'll walk you through every line of code I intend to write, every attempt I make to breach the wall.
If we get caught, you don't get 10 plead ignorance.
We go down together.
No, I didn't sign up for Bonnie and Clyde.
You need me for this one thing.
Just like I need you.
But whatever you've done before me, that You know where I live.
And you know who I am.
Sit down.
The sooner we start, the sooner we finish.
The Capitol is still on lockdown, as HazMat crews continue a thorough sweep of the building.
Earlier this morning, a white powder-like substance was found in a package mailed to the office of Majority Whip Jacqueline Sharp.
Are we free to go? Almost, sir.
Less than an hour.
I've got a message from your wife.
What is it? She's doing the interview live right now.
Congressman Donald Blythe and 14 of Miss Sharp's staff.
The secrets Mrs.
Underwood, I so appreciate you taking the time to speak with us today in what, lam certain, is a very stressful situation.
Thank you, Ashleigh.
Have you spoken with your husband today? Yes, I did.
And he's in very good spirits, and in good hands with the Secret Service.
Of course, he's very disappointed he couldn't be here.
Well, our thoughts are with him and everyone else quarantined at the Capitol today.
Thank you.
I'd like to begin with Claire Underwood before you met your husband, in Texas.
And I have a couple of pictures.
Oh, no.
Yes.
Oh, my goodness.
That was Red.
An accomplished rider? An enthusiast.
This one's from a couple of years later.
Oh, my goodness.
You like those penny loafers? Those are Those are two very different girls.
Which one are you more comfortable being? My family's ranch.
That was home for me.
You didn't like the prep school? No.
I think I preferred the dirt.
You grew up in Dallas, though.
Um, Highland Park.
Yes.
My father, well, he was a businessman.
So' we lived in the city, but we're ranchers.
I mean, we go back three generations, our family.
Your parents were very wealthy.
We were comfortable, yes.
They made sure I wanted for nothing.
It was a very happy childhood.
What is your most vivid memory from that time? My most vivid memory.
Wow.
Um Probably when I was about nine or 10, my father took me to Dealey Plaza, where Kennedy was shot.
And he said, "Claire, a great man died here.
" And I remember not fully comprehending the meaning of death yet.
And I asked him how he died, and he told me.
And I remember feeling so sad, so angry.
It seemed so unfair.
I started to cry, and my daddy picked me up.
And he wrapped his arms around me, and he said, "Don't be sad, sweetheart.
"He made the world a better place, "but sometimes that comes at a price.
" I guess that was the most vivid memory.
We are only eight votes away.
I'm sorry.
I've made up my mind.
Me, too.
I've gotta stick to my guns on this one.
You would rather let the government shut down Hey, don't put that on us just because we're on the ass-end of the whip list.
Don't get us wrong.
We have a lot of respect for you, Jackie.
You're doing a fine job since Frank's gone.
Different styles, but a fine job.
Excuse us just a moment.
They're not taking me seriously.
'Cause you're not Frank.
You mean because I'm not a man.
No.
I mean Frank.
They're used to being offered something.
Ask them what they want.
I know Paul needs help with a waste-treatment facility.
You're being just as condescending as they are.
Take some good advice when you get it.
I was right earlier, wasn't I? Paul, Remy tells me you need a waste treatment plant.
We've had some trouble getting matching federal funds.
Ben, you mentioned once a winery museum in your district? We are making some great wines in Long Island these days.
I've tried some.
It tastes like piss, compared to what we have in Napa, the sort of piss that belongs in Paul's waste treatment plant.
Jackie.
We have a possible terror attack, and you're holding out your plates for more pork.
You should be ashamed of yourselves.
In my caucus, people are rewarded for good behavior, not trading their votes for ransom.
When we walk in there, I expect the both of you to vote "Yes,  without a moment's hesitation.
Thank you for your change of heart.
Six more to go.
You left Texas and spent the last two years of high school at the prestigious Phillips Academy.
And then, on to Radcliffe.
Yes.
Where you would meet the future Vice President.
Back then, just a dashing law student.
I never dreamed he would become Vice President, of course.
Some people think that your marriage may be a bit more calculated than you let on, that perhaps he needed your family's money.
No.
That's just not true.
Your father did contribute an awful lotto his campaign.
Yes, he did.
Because he believed in Francis.
Would he have won that campaign had it not been for your father's contributions? I don't know.
I mean, it certainly helped.
But I like to think that it was Francis' ideas and leadership that convinced voters, not just TV commercials.
You've been married 27 years.
That's right.
You were just in school.
I mean, you married so young.
We did.
But when you've found the one Well, Francis was the one.
You call him Francis.
Well, back home, they call him Frank, still.
But he likes that I call him Francis.
He said that it makes him sound more sophisticated.
Is it hard being a politician's wife? It's thrilling.
Not without its challenges.
Always in the background, subsuming your goals for his goals.
No, I don't see it that way.
We're two very independent people who have chosen to live our lives together.
I support him.
He supports me.
Which, you know, goes back to the political partnership.
Well, my husband happens to be a politician, and I happen to do political work.
But our partnership extends far beyond that.
Children.
Was that a sacrifice? Because you haven't had any.
Francis and I wanted to devote our lives to public service.
And we didn't feel that we could both do that and be the parents we wanted to be.
So, we made the choice.
We've heard that answer before.
Sorry? You have given the exact same answer in previous interviews.
Because it's the truth.
Forgive me, but career and timing, uh, those are often very convenient answers.
It is true that whatever it takes for people to get from "maybe" to "yes" never arrived for me.
Never felt the pressure? No maternal instinct? No.
And it was a choice? It wasn't because you couldn't have any? Well, Francis and I did what was right for us.
Because it is unusual, I mean, even now, for politicians at the executive level not to have children.
Yes, it is.
In your husband's second congressional campaign, there was a Republican, a pro-family candidate, who made some pretty unsettling accusations.
Well, Francis is a Southern Democrat, and we have thick skins.
He suggested, in order to keep your husband's political career on track Children are the center of many people's lives.
And I think they just want to make sure that their representatives will fight for their children's dreams.
And Francis has, again and again, proven that he will.
And he will continue lo do so as Vice President.
He claimed that you may have been pregnant during the campaign.
Was there a pregnancy? Have you ever been pregnant? Break.
Now.
That's not gonna happen.
Yes.
During the campaign? Before.
Was it a miscarriage? No.
Did you Did you terminate the pregnancy? If I said "yes," my husband's political career would be in jeopardy.
My faith would be questioned.
Likely, my life would be threatened.
But I won't feel ashamed.
Yes, I was pregnant.
And, yes, I had an abortion.
Can you excuse me for one moment? Of course.
We'll have more of our live interview with Claire Underwood in a moment.
That took a lot of guts.
Yes, it did.
No.
It'll look like I am ashamed.
I'm not.
And I won't.
Nothing you can say will make this any better.
I'd rather deal with the damage I'm not going to run from this.
She's gonna ask why you had the abortion.
I haven't had one.
I've had three.
Three? No.
You need to stick to one.
Okay, fine.
Tell me what you'll say.
Well, I can't use the real reason.
The first two, I was a teenager, and I was reckless.
What about the third? Well, the article that she showed, it's right.
I was on the pill.
It didn't work.
We talked about having a baby, and then we decided against it.
Why? Because we were focused on the campaign.
How many weeks in? Sixteen.
You can't say any of this.
Go upstairs.
I'll deal with Ashleigh.
If we're going to continue, we've got about 20 seconds.
Connor, I Please, trust me.
You'll be making a big mistake.
Are you willing to discuss the circumstances? I became pregnant as a result of a sexual assault.
Are you saying that you were Raped.
You've never spoken publicly about this before.
No one ever asked.
Can you tell us what happened? It was college.
A classmate, we were dating.
And it happened on a We had a fight, and he forced himself on me.
Did you tell anybody about it? Did he Was he charged? No.
Because at the time, I felt that I was somehow at fault.
I knew I wasn't, but I just didn't want to be stared at.
I didn't want to be known as "the girl who got raped".
And when I became pregnant, I wasn't going to drop out of school.
I wasn't going to let this man ruin my life.
So' I made a choice.
I ended it.
But if you never told anybody about it, the assailant could still be out there.
Can you tell us anything about him? I saw him for the first time in almost 30 years, just a few months ago.
Where? At a commissioning ceremony that Francis and I attended.
Did you speak to him? Briefly.
Francis pinned stars on him.
He was being commissioned? General Dalton McGinnis.
And for the record, Francis has always known about the assault.
He just didn't know the name.
And he's been nothing but supportive all these years.
We're gonna have to reach out to the General, um, for a response to what you just said.
Would you mind if we took a quick break? Absolutely.
We'll be right back with Mrs.
Claire Underwood.
Take all the time you need.
The lab tests all came back negative, sir.
What was it? Talcum powder laced with flour.
It was pesticide from the wheat that gave us the false positive.
So, are we free to go? Yes, sir.
Nancy, tell 'em I'm on my way down.
I already did.
Mind if I use your phone? Of course.
And, Donald? I'm gonna get you that research funding, no matter how the vote goes.
It's your call, because I'm still voting against it.
I understand.
You have a brave wife, Frank.
So do you, Donald.
Frank! How'd you do? We're down to four.
How about Blythe? He won't budge.
What did you offer him? Alzheimer's research.
He was insulted.
The vote's in 45 minutes.
I need to get to Claire.
Who should I call from the car? We've exhausted our options.
It's either Blythe's people, or it won't pass.
They're too loyal to him.
Okay.
Go.
I'll figure it out.
I can stay if you need me.
No, get to your wife.
I know where to find you.
Nancy, I need every ream of paper you have.
And get me dollies.
Almost done.
Twenty more minutes.
I hate lying.
Did he do it? Yes.
Then don't feel bad.
What if he denies it? Then we'll cross that bridge.
Connor? Give us one more minute.
We have a young woman on the phone, a private.
She says she was also assaulted by the General.
Two years ago.
She wants to share her story, but she won't give her name.
We can't put her on if she's anonymous.
You want me to convince her? She's frightened.
Is she still on the phone? I've never told anyone.
It took me almost half my life before I could say anything.
But you can say something now.
I don'! know.
Just think of how many others there must have been.
Bu! you want me to talk.
Well, would you have called if you didn't want to? I didn't think I'd have to use my name.
Listen, I understand you're afraid of the consequence.
I'm a private.
He's a general.
And my husband is the Vice President of the United States.
We will protect you.
I promise you that.
What's your name? Private Megan Hennessey.
What is this? The names of every person in America who will lose home care when the freeze sets in, who will lose half their welfare benefits, who will go on furlough, who will lose their student loans, transportation services, post-combat counseling.
Shall I go on? This is about the big picture, Jacqueline.
This picture looks pretty big to me.
I can't vote for the package.
Then don't.
Just get four of your people to do it.
And then work with me after we avoid the freeze.
I'm not Frank Underwood.
At least two other girls that same year.
If that was true for all the years he's served It's just staggering.
And I felt so helpless.
And he keeps rising in the ranks.
The system protects him.
Why do you think no one has ever reported him? Do you wanna join her? We know it won't do anything.
No.
Chain of command.
It's inexcusable that you're willing to put your life on the line to defend our freedom, and yet you don't feel the freedom to come forward.
I love my country.
And I love sewing in the Marines.
But not like this.
Private Hennessey, thank you for your courage in joining us tonight.
It was Mrs.
Underwood who gave me the courage.
And Mrs.
Underwood, thank you for your honesty.
Sir, your wife is on the phone.
You've given us a great deal to think about.
Thank you, Ashleigh.
And that concludes our live one-on-one exclusive interview with Claire Underwood.
You can watch the entire interview on our website.
And as always, we invite you to give us your thoughts and your comments on Facebook and on Twitter.
But for now, thanks for watching, and good night.
And we're out.
This is going to make waves like you never imagined.
Thank you.
Where's Carter? You'll be reporting to me now.
And who are you? Carter's boss.
You're doing good work, Gavin.
But you can't be assaulting the target.
That could compromise us.
I don't even know why you're going after this guy.
He's small-time.
That's not your concern.
He couldn't write a line of code to save his life.
He intends to commit an act of cyberterrorism.
Well, that's intention, not capability.
He's not a real threat.
Maybe Carter talked things outwith you.
I won't.
How much longer? Until what? Until I can stop.
Do you prefer prison? I've given you eight child pornographers, three botnet masters But you still haven't given us AV unit.
Well' Hold Carter I don't know where he is.
Yes, you do.
I don't.
Nobody does.
Then what about your friends in DecSec? I'm not giving you my friends.
Then you can keep doing this.
You're a productive asset, Gavin, but the moment you stop being productive, no lawyer can help you.
Wish we had the real thing right now.
Always prepared.
Francis.
I've missed this.
So have I.
Shouldn't you be on the phone getting your accolades? That can wait till tomorrow.
Sing me something.
What do you want to hear? Anything.
# Polly, pretty Polly Would you take me unkind? # Oh, Pally, pretty Polly Would you take me unkind? # Let me set beside you And tel! you my mind # Well, my mind is to marry And never to part # My mind is to marry And never to part # The first time I saw you You wounded my heart # Oh, Polly, pretty Polly Come go along with me # Before we get married Some pleasures to see # Before we get married Some pleasures to see I
